10375213	A region on bovine chromosome 15 influences beef longissimus tenderness in steers. A genome scan was conducted using 196 microsatellite DNA markers spanning 29 autosomal bovine chromosomes and Warner-Bratzler shear force collected at d 2 and 14 postmortem on steaks from the longissimus muscle of 294 progeny from one Brahman x Hereford bull mated to Bos taurus cows to identify QTL for beef tenderness. One QTL was identified and located 28 cM (95% confidence interval is  17 to 40 cM) from the most centromeric marker on BTA15. The QTL interacted significantly with slaughter group. The difference in shear force of steaks aged  14 d postmortem between progeny with the Brahman paternally inherited allele vs those with Hereford was 1.19 phenotypic standard deviations (explained 26% of phenotypic variance) for one slaughter group and was not significant for three other slaughter groups. Apparently, unknown environmental factors present for three of the four slaughter groups were capable of masking the effect of this QTL. The sensitivity of the QTL effect to environmental factors may complicate utilization of markers for genetic improvement. Future research to elucidate the  cause of the QTL x slaughter group interaction may lead to improved strategies for controlling variation in meat tenderness via marker-assisted selection, postmortem processing, or live animal management.

10375215	A primary screen of the bovine genome for quantitative trait loci affecting carcass and growth traits. A primary genomic screen for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting carcass and  growth traits was performed by genotyping 238 microsatellite markers on 185 out of 300 total progeny from a Bos indicus x Bos taurus sire mated to Bos taurus cows. The following traits were analyzed for QTL effects: birth weight (BWT), weaning weight (WW), yearling weight (YW), hot carcass weight (HCW), dressing percentage (DP), fat thickness (FT), marbling score (MAR), longissimus muscle area (LMA), rib bone (RibB), rib fat (RibF), and rib muscle (RibM), and the predicted whole carcass traits, retail product yield (RPYD), fat trim yield (FATYD), bone yield (BOYD), retail product weight (RPWT), fat weight (FATWT), and bone weight (BOWT). Data were analyzed by generating an F-statistic profile computed at 1-cM intervals for each chromosome by the regression of phenotype on  the conditional probability of receiving the Brahman allele from the sire. There  was compelling evidence for a QTL allele of Brahman origin affecting an increase  in RibB and a decrease in DP on chromosome 5 (BTA5). Putative QTL at or just below the threshold for genome-wide significance were as follows: an increase in  RPYD and component traits on BTA2 and BTA13, an increase in LMA on BTA14, and an  increase in BWT on BTA1. Results provided represent a portion of our efforts to identify and characterize QTL affecting carcass and growth traits.

10376304	A search for quantitative trait loci for milk production traits on chromosome 6 in Finnish Ayrshire cattle. Cattle chromosome 6 was scanned with 11 markers, ten microsatellites and the casein haplotype, to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting the following milk production traits: milk yield, fat percentage, fat yield, protein  percentage and protein yield. Twelve Finnish Ayrshire half-sib families with a total of 480 sons were genotyped and used in a grand-daughter design. Interval mapping was performed with a multiple-marker regression approach with a one-QTL and a two-QTL model, and the significance threshold values were determined empirically using a permutation test. Across-family analysis with the one-QTL model revealed an effect on protein percentage (P < 0.05) and on milk yield (P <  0.05). The analysis with the two-QTL model identified significant effects (P < 0.05) on protein percentage, milk yield, and fat yield. Comparing these two cases, the results suggest the existence of two QTLs on chromosome 6 with an effect on milk production traits. One of the QTLs was located around the casein genes. As the other QTL was similar in location and effect to a QTL found previously in Holstein-Friesians, an identity-by-descent approach could be applied to fine map this region.

10430670	A quantitative trait locus for live weight maps to bovine chromosome 23. A multiple-marker mapping approach was used to search for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting production, health, and fertility traits in Finnish Ayrshire dairy cattle. As part of a whole-genome scan, altogether 469 bulls were genotyped for six microsatellite loci in 12 families on Chromosome (Chr) 23. Both multiple-marker interval mapping with regression and maximum-likelihood methods were applied with a granddaughter design. Eighteen traits, belonging to 11 trait  groups, were included in the analysis. One QTL exceeded experiment level and one  QTL genome level significance thresholds. Across-families analysis provided strong evidence (P(experiment) = 0.0314) for a QTL affecting live weight. The QTL for live weight maps between markers BM1258 and BoLA DRBP1. A QTL significant at  genome level (P(genome) = 0.0087) was mapped for veterinary treatment, and the putative QTL probably affects susceptibility to milk fever or ketosis. In addition, three traits exceeded the chromosome 5% significance threshold: protein percentage of milk, calf mortality (sire), and milking speed. In within-family analyses, protein percentage was associated with markers in one family (LOD score = 4.5).

10430929	Fine-mapping of quantitative trait loci by identity by descent in outbred populations: application to milk production in dairy cattle. We previously mapped a quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting milk production to bovine chromosome 14. To refine the map position of this QTL, we have increased the density of the genetic map of BTA14q11-16 by addition of nine microsatellites and three single nucleotide polymorphisms. Fine-mapping of the QTL was accomplished by a two-tiered approach. In the first phase, we identified  seven sires heterozygous "Qq" for the QTL by marker-assisted segregation analysis in a Holstein-Friesian pedigree comprising 1,158 individuals. In a second phase,  we genotyped the seven selected sires for the newly developed high-density marker map and searched for a shared haplotype flanking an hypothetical, identical-by-descent QTL allele with large substitution effect. The seven chromosomes increasing milk fat percentage were indeed shown to carry a common chromosome segment with an estimated size of 5 cM predicted to contain the studied QTL. The same haplotype was shown to be associated with increased fat percentage in the general population as well, providing additional support in favor of the location of the QTL within the corresponding interval.

10467704	An MspI polymorphism at the bovine growth hormone (bGH) gene is linked to a locus affecting milk protein percentage. SSCP analysis of the bovine growth hormone (bGH) gene in Israel Holstein dairy cattle uncovered five intragenic haplotypes, denoted A to E. Of these, Haplotype  E differed from the others at six fragments; one of which corresponded to the polymorphic MspI site in intron III, at which haplotype E carried the disabled MspI (-) allele. Haplotype E was observed in a single sire only, carrying haplotype A as the second bGH allele. In 523 daughters of this sire genotyped for the MspI polymorphism, heterozygous (+/-) as compared to homozygous (+/+) daughters, showed a significant increasing effect on protein percentage and kg protein per year; and a decreasing effect (P < 0.10) on milk somatic cell counts  (MSSC). None of the daughters were homozygous (-/-), indicating that the frequency of this allele in the general population was essentially zero. Calculated skewness (g1) values for the two daughter groups differed significantly with (+/-) daughters showing negative skewness (in the direction of lower protein percentage), and (+/+) daughters positive skewness (in the direction of higher protein percentage). The direction of skewness in each group  is indicative of the presence of a QTL having an increasing effect on milk protein percentage in coupling linkage with the MspI (-) allele in this sire, but at some distance from it. Maximum likelihood estimates of the proportion of recombination (r) between the putative QTL and bGH, and the allele substitution effect at the QTL (d), were r = 0.33, a = 0.07% protein, with standard errors 0.058 and 0.009% protein, respectively.

10575617	Detection of putative loci affecting milk, health, and type traits in a US Holstein population using 70 microsatellite markers in a genome scan. Quantitative trait loci affecting milk yield, health, and type traits were studied for seven large U.S. Holstein grandsire families using the granddaughter  design. Seventy microsatellite markers located throughout the genome were selected for the quantitative trait loci scan. Effects of marker alleles were analyzed for 30 traits (21 type traits, 5 milk traits, 2 calving ease triats, and somatic cell score and productive life) and 16 canonical traits derived from type and production traits. Previously we reported results from 36 of these markers but have re-evaluated those results using a more robust analysis method. We report results from all 70 markers using permutation tests to calculate experiment-wise significance values, replacing the less stringent comparison-wise values previously reported. With this new methodology we detected 9 putative quantitative trait loci within specific families. Four markers were associated with effects on type traits on chromosomes 4, 5, 14, and 23. Two markers were associated with effects on protein percentage on chromosomes 6 and 14, and 3 markers were associated with effects on productive life on chromosomes 2, 21, and 23. Although these initial 70 microsatellite markers have been completed in the 7 Holstein families, additional markers will need to be added to allow interval analysis of areas where putative QTL have been identified and to increase marker  density where needed.

10582278	Detection of QTL for milk production traits in cattle by application of a specifically developed marker map of BTA6. Interval mapping was carried out to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) for milk production traits in five granddaughter design families of the German Holstein population. Fourteen randomly generated markers spanning the whole of BTA6 and six targeted microsatellite markers from BTA6q21-31 were included in the analysis. In one family a QTL with effects on milk fat yield and milk protein yield was mapped to the interval TGLA37-FBN13 (3 CM proximal to FBN13, lodscore 3.22) in the middle part of the chromosome. Although there are several reports about QTL with effects on milk production traits on BTA6 in the literature, a QTL with effects on milk fat and milk protein yield has not been previously described.

10589513	A QTL for the degree of spotting in cattle shows synteny with the KIT locus on chromosome 6. The proportion of unpigmented coat on the trunk was determined from photographs of 38 German Simmental and 627 German Holstein bulls distributed over three generations. All 665 animals were members of 18 Holstein and 3 Simmental half-sib families. A Bayesian estimation of heritability yielded a posterior mean of 0.88  and a standard error of 0.08. A quantitative trait loci (QTL) scan over all chromosomes covered by 229 microsatellite marker loci (2926 cM) was performed by  fitting a multiple marker regression model to 625 observations from the youngest  generation in 18 families. On chromosome 6 a QTL for the proportion of white coat with large effects (experiment-wise error probability < .0001) was found and a less important one on chromosome 3 (chromosome-wise error probability < .009). Chromosome 6 is known to harbor the KIT locus (receptor tyrosinase kinase), which is associated with various depigmentation phenotypes in mice, humans, and pigs. Similarity of phenotypic KIT effects in other species and synteny with the reported QTL suggest that KIT is a serious candidate gene for the degree of spotting in cattle. The results are also discussed with respect to resistance to  solar radiation, heat stress, and photosensitization.

10656928	Mapping quantitative trait loci for bovine ovulation rate. An elite, three-generation family from the USDA Meat Animal Research Center twinning population was examined for evidence of ovulation rate quantitative trait loci (QTL). This work was both a continuation of previously reported results suggesting evidence for ovulation rate QTL on bovine Chromosome (Chr) 7 and an extension of a genome-wide search for QTL. Additional markers were typed on Chr 7 to facilitate interval mapping and testing of the hypothesis of one versus two QTL on that chromosome. In addition, 14 other informative markers were added to a selective genotyping genome screening of this family, and markers exhibiting nominal significance were used to identify chromosomal regions that were then subjected to more exhaustive analysis. For Chr 7, a total of 12 markers were typed over a region spanning the proximal two-thirds of the chromosome. Results from interval mapping analyses indicated evidence suggestive of the presence of QTL (nominal P<0.00077) within this region. Subsequent analysis with  a model postulating two QTL provided evidence (P<0.05) for two rather than one QTL on this chromosome. Preliminary analysis with additional markers indicated nominal significance (P<0.05) for regions of Chrs 5, 10, and 19. Each of these regions was then typed with additional markers for the entire three-generation pedigree. Significant evidence (P<0.000026) of ovulation rate QTL was found for Chrs 5 and 19, while support on Chr 10 failed to exceed a suggestive linkage threshold (P>0.00077).

10764062	Quantitative trait loci affecting growth and carcass composition of cattle segregating alternate forms of myostatin. The effects of the bovine myostatin gene on chromosome 2 on birth and carcass traits have been previously assessed. The objective of this study was to identify additional quantitative trait loci (QTL) for economically important traits in two families segregating an inactive copy of myostatin. Two half-sib families were developed from Belgian Blue x MARC III (n = 246) and Piedmontese x Angus (n = 209) sires. Traits analyzed were birth (kg) and yearling weight (kg); hot carcass weight (kg); fat depth (cm); marbling score; longissimus muscle area (cm2); estimated kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (%); USDA yield grade; retail product yield (%); fat yield (%); and wholesale rib-fat yield (%). Meat tenderness was measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force at 3 and 14 d postmortem. The effect of myostatin on these traits was removed by using phase information obtained from the previous study with six microsatellite markers flanking the locus. Selective  genotyping was done on 92 animals from both families to identify genomic regions  potentially associated with retail product yield and fat depth, using a total of  150 informative markers in each family. Regions in which selective genotyping indicated the presence of QTL were evaluated further by genotyping the entire population and additional markers. For the family with Belgian Blue inheritance (n = 246), a significant QTL for birth and yearling weight was identified on chromosome 6. Suggestive QTL were identified for longissimus muscle area and hot  carcass weight on chromosome 6 and for marbling on chromosomes 17 and 27. For the family with Piedmontese inheritance (n = 209), suggestive QTL on chromosome 5 were identified for fat depth, retail product yield, and USDA yield grade and on  chromosome 29 for Warner-Bratzler shear force at 3 and 14 d postmortem. Interactions suggesting the presence of QTL were observed between myostatin and chromosome 5 for Warner-Bratzler shear force at 14 d postmortem and between myostatin and chromosome 14 for fat depth. Thus, in families segregating an inactive copy of myostatin in cattle, other loci influencing quantitative traits  can be detected. These results are the initial effort to identify and characterize QTL affecting carcass and growth traits in families segregating myostatin.

10791796	Whole genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci for conformation and functional traits in dairy cattle. A granddaughter design was used to locate quantitative trait loci determining conformation and functional traits in dairy cattle. In this granddaughter design, consisting of 20 Holstein Friesian grandsires and 833 sons, genotypes were determined for 277 microsatellite markers covering the whole genome. Breeding values for 27 traits, regarding conformation (18), fertility (2), birth (4), workability (2), and udder health (1), were evaluated in an across-family analysis using multimarker regression. Significance thresholds were determined using a permutation test. The across-family analysis suggested the presence of 61 quantitative trait loci when 27 (i.e., one for each trait) were expected by chance. The test statistic exceeded the genomewise significance threshold for the following traits and chromosomes: chest width on chromosome 2; gestation length on chromosome 4; stature, body capacity, and size on chromosome 5; dairy character on chromosome 6; angularity on chromosome 12; fore udder attachment on  chromosome 13; and fore udder attachment and front teat placement on chromosome 19. The quantitative trait loci for size traits on chromosomes 2, 5, and 6 may also have an effect on calving ease. The quantitative trait loci for udder traits on chromosomes 13 and 19 may also affect somatic cell score and mastitis resistance. If there are no negative effects on other economically important traits, marker assisted selection using markers associated with these quantitative trait loci can be applied.

10984164	Detection of putative loci affecting milk, health, and conformation traits in a US Holstein population using 105 microsatellite markers. Quantitative trait loci affecting milk yield, health, and conformation traits were studied for eight large US Holstein grandsire families by using the granddaughter design. A total of 105 microsatellite markers, located throughout the bovine genome, were selected for the scan. The data analyzed include genotypes for 35 markers in eight families not previously reported and genotypes  for 70 markers reported previously in seven of those families. Analyses of markers previously reported were updated. Effects of marker alleles were analyzed for 38 traits, including traits for milk production, somatic cell score, productive life, conformation, calving ease, and 16 canonical traits derived from conformation and production traits. Permutation tests were used to calculate empirical trait-wise error rates. A trait-wise critical value of P = 0.1 was used to determine significance. Eight putative quantitative trait loci associated with 7 of the 35 new markers were identified within specific families. Two of these markers were associated with differences in strength and rump angle on chromosomes 4 and 9, respectively. Different markers were associated with protein percentage, milk yield, and somatic cell score on chromosomes 6, 7, and 10 in different families. Differences in the canonically transformed traits were associated with markers on chromosomes 5, 6, and 9. Additional marker-trait combinations were identified in the across-family tests, including effects on chromosomes 3, 4, and 9 for protein percentage, body depth, and canonical conformation traits, respectively. Additional markers are being added to allow interval analysis for putative quantitative trait loci that have been identified  and to increase marker density.

11003703	A primary screen of the bovine genome for quantitative trait loci affecting twinning rate. An autosomal genome scan for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting twinning rate was carried out in the Norwegian Cattle population. Suggestive QTL were detected on Chromosomes (Chr) 5, 7, 12, and 23. Among these, the QTL positions on both Chr 5 and Chr 23 are strongly supported by literature in the field. Our results also confirm previous mapping of a QTL for twinning to Chr 7, but definitely suggest a different location of the QTL on this chromosome. The most convincing QTL peak was observed for a region in the middle part of Chr 5 close to the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) gene. Since IGF1 plays an important role in the regulation of folliculogenesis, a mutation search was performed by sequencing more than 3.5 kb of the gene in actual families. The sequencing revealed three polymorphisms in noncoding regions of the gene that will be important in fine structure mapping and characterization of the QTL.

11015574	A genome scan for QTL influencing milk production and health traits in dairy cattle. A genome scan was conducted in the North American Holstein-Friesian population for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting production and health traits using the granddaughter design. Resource families consisted of 1,068 sons of eight elite sires. Genome coverage was estimated to be 2,551 cM (85%) for 174 genotyped markers. Each marker was tested for effects on milk yield, fat yield, protein yield, fat percentage, protein percentage, somatic cell score, and productive herd life using analysis of variance. Joint analysis of all families identified marker effects on 11 chromosomes that exceeded the genomewide, suggestive, or nominal significance threshold for QTL effects. Large marker effects on fat percentage were found on chromosomes 3 and 14, and multimarker regression analysis was used to refine the position of these QTL. Half-sibling families from Israeli Holstein dairy herds were used in a daughter design to confirm the presence of the QTL for fat percentage on chromosome 14. The QTL identified in this study may be useful for marker-assisted selection and for selection of a refined set of candidate genes affecting these traits.

11167525	Testing for the presence of previously identified QTL for milk production traits  in new populations. Five chromosomal regions previously associated with milk production traits were tested in 16 families of Black and White cattle from the UK. The traits were also linearly transformed into genetically and phenotypically independent variables normalized by phenotypic variances ('canonical traits'). Significant associations with the untransformed and canonical traits were found for bovine chromosome 6. There was also evidence that chromosome 9 influenced these traits. The linear transformation clarified the effects of chromosomal regions; regions with effects on all three untransformed traits (milk, fat and protein yields) were generally condensed into an effect on a single canonical trait. Comparison of our results with those reported previously for American Holstein cattle suggested that the QTL may not be the same.

11178740	Detection of QTL for milk production on Chromosomes 1 and 6 of Holstein cattle. Seventy to 75 sons of each of six Holstein sires were assayed for genotypes at a  number of microsatellite loci spanning Chromosomes (Chrs) 1 and 6. The number of  informative loci varied from three to eight on each chromosome in different sire  families. Linkage order and map distance for microsatellite loci were estimated using CRI-MAP. Estimates of QTL effect and location were made by using a least squares interval mapping approach based on daughter yield deviations of sons for  305-d milk, fat, protein yield, and fat and protein percentage. Thresholds for statistical significance of QTL effects were determined from interval mapping of  10,000 random permutations of the data across the bull sire families and within each sire family separately. Across-sire analyses indicated a significant QTL for fat and protein yield, and fat percentage on Chr 1, and QTL effects on milk yield and protein percentage that might represent one or two QTL on Chr 6. Analyses within each sire family indicated significant QTL effects in five sire families,  with one sire possibly being heterozygous for two QTLs. Statistically significant estimates of QTL effects on breeding value ranged from 340 to 640 kg of milk, from 15.6 to 28.4 kg of fat, and 14.4 to 17.6 kg of protein.

11204717	Putative quantitative trait locus affecting birth weight on bovine chromosome 2. A genome scan for chromosomal regions influencing birth weight was performed using 151 progeny of a single Hereford x composite bull and 170 microsatellite markers spanning 2.497 morgans on 29 bovine autosomes. A QTL was identified at the telomeric end of bovine chromosome 2 (maximum effect at 114 cM) accounting for approximately 2.8 kg of birth weight or 0.64 residual standard deviations (after adjustment for sex of calf, age of dam, and breed of dam). No significant  effect on growth from birth to weaning was detected in this region. The presence  of this QTL within a resource herd composed of breeds common to the Northern Great Plains provides an opportunity to initiate marker-assisted selection to reduce birth weight with minimal effect on postnatal growth. Thus, potentially the amount and degree of dystocia can be reduced and the economic loss associated with calving difficulty lessened without compromise of subsequent growth performance. In addition, this finding indicates that significant genetic variation for birth weight (and presumably other production-related traits) exists within herds composed of commercially adapted Bos taurus germplasm.

11290723	A whole genome scan for quantitative trait loci affecting milk protein percentage in Israeli-Holstein cattle, by means of selective milk DNA pooling in a daughter  design, using an adjusted false discovery rate criterion. Selective DNA pooling was employed in a daughter design to screen all bovine autosomes for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting estimated breeding value for milk protein percentage (EBVP%). Milk pools prepared from high and low daughters of each of seven sires were genotyped for 138 dinucleotide microsatellites. Shadow-corrected estimates of sire allele frequencies were compared between high and low pools. An adjusted false discovery rate (FDR) method was employed to calculate experimentwise significance levels and empirical power. Significant associations with milk protein percentage were found for 61 of the markers (adjusted FDR = 0.10; estimated power, 0.68). The significant markers appear to be linked to 19--28 QTL. Mean allele substitution effects of the putative QTL averaged 0.016 (0.009--0.028) in units of the within-sire family standard deviation of EBVP% and summed to 0.460 EBVP%. Overall QTL heterozygosity was 0.40. The identified QTL appear to account for all of the variation in EBVP%  in the population. Through use of selective DNA pooling, 4400 pool data points provided the statistical power of 600,000 individual data points.

11325189	A comprehensive search for quantitative trait loci affecting growth and carcass composition of cattle segregating alternative forms of the myostatin gene. The objective of this study was to identify quantitative trait loci for economically important traits in two families segregating an inactive copy of the myostatin gene. Two half-sib families were developed from a Belgian Blue x MARC III (n = 246) and a Piedmontese x Angus (n = 209) sire. Traits analyzed were birth, weaning, and yearling weight (kg); preweaning average daily gain (kg/d); postweaning average daily gain (kg/d); hot carcass weight (kg); fat depth (cm); marbling score; longissimus muscle area (cm2); estimated kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (%); USDA yield grade; retail product yield (%); fat yield (%); and wholesale rib-fat yield (%). Meat tenderness was measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force at 3 and 14 d postmortem. The effect of the myostatin gene was removed using phase information from six microsatellite markers flanking the locus. Interactions of the myostatin gene with other loci throughout the genome were also evaluated: The objective was to use markers in each family, scanning the genome approximately every 25 to 30 centimorgans (cM) on 18 autosomal chromosomes, excluding 11 autosomal chromosomes previously analyzed. A total of 89 markers, informative in both families, were used to identify genomic regions potentially associated with each trait. In the family of Belgian Blue inheritance, a significant QTL (expected number of false-positives = 0.025) was identified for marbling score on chromosome 3. Suggestive QTL for the same family (expected number of false-positives = 0.5) were identified for retail product yield on chromosome 3, for hot carcass weight and postweaning average daily gain  on chromosome 4, for fat depth and marbling score on chromosome 8, for 14-d Warner-Bratzler shear force on chromosome 9, and for marbling score on chromosome 10. Evidence suggesting the presence of an interaction for 3-d Warner-Bratzler shear force between the myostatin gene and a QTL on chromosome 4 was detected. In the family of Piedmontese and Angus inheritance, evidence indicates the presence  of an interaction for fat depth between the myostatin gene and chromosome 8, in a similar position where the evidence suggests the presence of a QTL for fat depth  in the family with Belgian Blue inheritance. Regions identified underlying QTL need to be assessed in other populations. Although the myostatin gene has a considerable effect, other loci with more subtle effects are involved in the expression of the phenotype.

11417712	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting milk production traits on 10 chromosomes in Holstein cattle. Sons (n = 71 to 75) of each of six Holstein sires were genotyped at 69 microsatellite loci covering a total of 676 cM on chromosomes 3, 5, 9, 10, 13, 15, 17, 20, 23, and 26. Estimates of quantitative trait loci (QTL) effect and location were made using a least squares interval mapping approach based on daughter yield deviations of sons for 305 d milk, fat, and protein yield and fat  and protein percentage. Thresholds for statistical significance of QTL effects were determined from interval mapping of 10,000 random permutations of the data across the bull sire families and within each sire family separately. Analyses combining data across sires indicated the presence of QTL affecting milk, fat, and protein yield on chromosomes 20 and 26 and a QTL affecting fat and protein percentage on chromosome 3. Analyses within each sire family separately indicated the presence of segregating QTL in at least one family on 7 of the 10 chromosomes. Statistically significant estimates of QTL effects on breeding value ranged from 438 to 658 kg of milk, from 17.4 to 24.9 kg of fat, 13.0 to 17.0 kg of protein, 0.04 to 0.17% fat, and 0.07 to 0.10% protein.

11420620	Comparative mapping of BTA15 and HSA11 including a region containing a QTL for meat tenderness. The starting point of the present study was the reported identification of a chromosomal region on bovine Chromosome (Chr) 15 (BTA15) carrying loci affecting  meat tenderness. A comparative linkage map of BTA15 and human Chr 11 (HSA11) was  constructed to identify potential positional candidate genes and to provide a resource of genetic markers to support marker-assisted selection (MAS). Relative  rearrangements between the bovine and human genomes for these chromosomes are the most complex observed in comparative mapping between the two species, with nine alternating blocks of conserved synteny between HSA11 and bovine Chrs 15 and 29.  The results of this study were the addition of nine genes to the HSA11/BTA15 comparative linkage map, and development of five microsatellite markers within the quantitative trait locus (QTL) interval. One gene with known effects on muscle development (MYOD1) was mapped to the interval. A second gene (CALCA) involved in regulation of calcium levels, a key factor in postmortem tenderization, also mapped within the interval. Refinement of the comparative map and QTL position will reduce the interval on the human transcription map to be scanned in search of candidates, reducing the effort and resources required to identify the allelic variation responsible for the genetic effect.

11447250	A QTL study of cattle behavioral traits in embryo transfer families. Two behavioral traits, temperament and habituation, were measured in 130 calves from 17 full-sib families which comprise the Canadian Beef Cattle Reference Herd. Using variance components, heritability was calculated as 0.36 for temperament and 0.46 for habituation. Genotyping of 162 microsatellites at approximately 20 cM intervals allowed the detection of six quantitative trait loci (QTL) for behavior traits on cattle chromosomes 1, 5, 9, 11, 14, 15.

11471060	A mammary gland EST showing linkage disequilibrium to a milk production QTL on bovine Chromosome 14. As part of a genome scan, ESTs derived from mammary gland tissue of a lactating cow were used as candidate genes for quantitative trait loci (QTL), affecting milk production traits. Resource families were genotyped with 247 microsatellite  markers and 4 polymorphic ESTs. It was shown by linkage analysis that one of these ESTs, KIEL_E8, mapped to the centromeric region of bovine Chromosome (Chr)  14. Regression analysis revealed the presence of a QTL, with significant effect on milk production, in this chromosome region, and analysis of variance showed no significant interaction of marker genotype and family. The estimated significant  differences between homozygous marker genotypes were 140 kg milk, -5.02 kg fat yield, and 2.58 kg protein yield for the first 100 days of lactation. Thus, there was strong evidence for a complete or nearly complete linkage disequilibrium between KIEL_E8 and the QTL. To identify the biological function of KIEL_E8, we extended the sequence for 869 bp by 5'-RACE. A 560-bp fragment of this shows a 90.9% similarity to a gene encoding a cysteine- and histidine-rich cytoplasmic protein in mouse. Although such a protein may have a regulatory function for lactation and a linkage disequilibrium between the EST marker and the QTL has been observed, it remains to be elucidated whether they are identical or not. Nevertheless, KIEL_E8 will be an efficient marker to perform marker-assisted selection in the Holstein-Friesian population.

11606547	Multiple quantitative trait locus analysis of bovine chromosome 6 in the Israeli  Holstein population by a daughter design. Nine Israeli Holstein sire families with 2978 daughters were analyzed for quantitative trait loci effects on chromosome 6 for five milk production traits by a daughter design. All animals were genotyped for 2 markers. The three families with significant effects were genotyped for up to 10 additional markers  spanning positions 0-122 cM of BTA6. Two sires were segregating for a locus affecting protein and fat percentage near position 55 cM with an estimated substitution effect of 0.18% protein, which is equivalent to one phenotypic standard deviation. This locus was localized to a confidence interval of 4 cM. One of these sires was also heterozygous for a locus affecting milk, fat, and protein production near the centromere. The hypothesis of two segregating loci was verified by multiple regression analysis. A third sire was heterozygous for a locus affecting milk and protein percentage near the telomeric end of the chromosome. Possible candidates for the major quantitative gene near position 55  cM were determined by comparative mapping. IBSP and SSP1 were used as anchors for the orthologous region on human chromosome 4. Twelve genes were detected within a 2-Mbp sequence. None of these genes have been previously associated with lactogenesis.

11768096	A genome scan to identify quantitative trait loci affecting economically important traits in a US Holstein population. Quantitative trait loci affecting economically important traits were studied for  eight large US Holstein grandsire families by using the granddaughter design. A total of 155 microsatellite markers located throughout the bovine genome were selected for the scan. The data analyzed include genotypes for 50 markers not previously reported. Results analyses of 105 marker genotypes reported previously were updated. Effects of marker alleles were analyzed for 38 traits including traits for milk production, somatic cell score, productive life, conformation, calving ease, and 16 canonical traits derived from conformation and production traits. Permutation tests were used to calculate empirical traitwise error rates. A traitwise critical value of P = 0.1 was used to determine significance. Ten putative quantitative trait loci associated with seven of the new markers were identified within specific families. One marker on chromosome 14 was associated with differences in fat yield, fat percentage, and a canonical production trait in two families. Markers on chromosomes 18 and 22 were associated with differences in rump angle in the same family. Markers were associated with differences in udder depth and fore udder attachment on chromosomes 16 and 20, respectively. One marker on chromosome 27 was associated with a difference in the dairy capacity composite index, and another marker on chromosome 13 was associated with a difference in a canonical conformation trait. These additional  markers complete our genome scan to identify quantitative trait loci affecting economically important traits in a selected commercial Holstein population. The quantitative trait loci identified in this genome scan may be useful for marker-assisted selection to increase the rate of genetic improvement on traits such as disease resistance and conformation traits associated with fitness while  accelerating genetic improvement for production.

11827942	Positional candidate cloning of a QTL in dairy cattle: identification of a missense mutation in the bovine DGAT1 gene with major effect on milk yield and composition. We recently mapped a quantitative trait locus (QTL) with a major effect on milk composition--particularly fat content--to the centromeric end of bovine chromosome 14. We subsequently exploited linkage disequilibrium to refine the map position of this QTL to a 3-cM chromosome interval bounded by microsatellite markers BULGE13 and BULGE09. We herein report the positional candidate cloning of this QTL, involving (1) the construction of a BAC contig spanning the corresponding marker interval, (2) the demonstration that a very strong candidate gene, acylCoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), maps to that contig, and (3) the identification of a nonconservative K232A substitution in the DGAT1 gene  with a major effect on milk fat content and other milk characteristics.

11845286	Quantitative trait loci affecting clinical mastitis and somatic cell count in dairy cattle. Norway has a field recording system for dairy cattle that includes recording of all veterinary treatments on an individual animal basis from 1978 onwards. Application of these data in a genome search for quantitative trait loci (QTL) verified genome-wise significant QTL affecting clinical mastitis on Chromosome (Chr) 6. Additional putative QTL for clinical mastitis were localized to Chrs. 3, 4, 14, and 27. The comprehensive field recording system includes information on somatic cell count as well. This trait is often used in selection against mastitis when direct information on clinical mastitis is not available. The absence of common QTL positions for the two traits in our study indicates that the use of somatic cell count data in QTL studies aimed for reducing the incidence of mastitis should be carefully evaluated.

12019241	Simultaneous mining of linkage and linkage disequilibrium to fine map quantitative trait loci in outbred half-sib pedigrees: revisiting the location of a quantitative trait locus with major effect on milk production on bovine chromosome 14. A maximum-likelihood QTL mapping method that simultaneously exploits linkage and  linkage disequilibrium and that is applicable in outbred half-sib pedigrees is described. The method is applied to fine map a QTL with major effect on milk fat  content in a 3-cM marker interval on proximal BTA14. This proximal location is confirmed by applying a haplotype-based association method referred to as recombinant ancestral haplotype analysis. The origin of the discrepancy between the QTL position derived in this work and that of a previous analysis is examined and shown to be due to the existence of distinct marker haplotypes associated with QTL alleles having large substitution effects.

12019251	Fine mapping of a quantitative trait locus for twinning rate using combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium mapping. A novel and robust method for the fine-scale mapping of genes affecting complex traits, which combines linkage and linkage-disequilibrium information, is proposed. Linkage information refers to recombinations within the marker-genotyped generations and linkage disequilibrium to historical recombinations before genotyping started. The identity-by-descent (IBD) probabilities at the quantitative trait locus (QTL) between first generation haplotypes were obtained from the similarity of the marker alleles surrounding the QTL, whereas IBD probabilities at the QTL between later generation haplotypes were obtained by using the markers to trace the inheritance of the QTL. The variance explained by the QTL is estimated by residual maximum likelihood using the correlation structure defined by the IBD probabilities. Unlinked background genes were accounted for by fitting a polygenic variance component. The method was used to fine map a QTL for twinning rate in cattle, previously mapped on chromosome 5 by linkage analysis. The data consisted of large half-sib families,  but the method could also handle more complex pedigrees. The likelihood of the putative QTL was very small along most of the chromosome, except for a sharp likelihood peak in the ninth marker bracket, which positioned the QTL within a region <1 cM in the middle part of bovine chromosome 5. The method was expected to be robust against multiple genes affecting the trait, multiple mutations at the QTL, and relatively low marker density.

12019605	The identification of common haplotypes on bovine chromosome 5 within commercial  lines of Bos taurus and their associations with growth traits. The cosegregation between a genetic marker and the QTL in a well-designed mapping population is the basis for successful QTL mapping. Linkage disequilibria are, however, also expected among individuals that descended from the same breeding line, and some common haplotypes should carry on and segregate among individuals  of the line. These identical by descent haplotypes make it possible to identify and locate the QTL segregating in the line. We report the identification of common haplotypes within commercial lines of Bos taurus and their associations with growth traits. One hundred and seventy six male calves and their 12 sires (9 to 30 male calves of each sire) of the Beefbooster, Inc., M1 line selected for maternal traits over 30 yr were genotyped using 16 microsatellite markers chosen  from bovine chromosome 5 for the initial haplotype and growth association analysis. In order to verify the results from the M1 line, another 170 male calves and their 14 sires from the Beefbooster M3 line were genotyped using nine  microsatellite markers chosen from bovine chromosome 5. The alleles of each male  calf contributed by the sire and by the dam were identified, and haplotypes in the M1 line were established along 93% of bovine chromosome 5. The haplotypes in  the M3 line were established along the chosen regions of bovine chromosome 5. Regression analysis detected 10 haplotypes in three chromosomal regions (0 to 30  cM, 55 to 70 cM, and 70 to 80 cM) that showed significant associations with birth weight, preweaning average daily gain, and average daily gain on feed in M1 line  and 9 haplotypes associated with the growth traits in the same chromosomal regions in the M3 line at the comparisonwise threshold level. On average, the 19  haplotypes have an effect of 0.68 SD on the growth traits, ranging from 0.41 SD to 1.02 SD The results provide a useful reference for further positional candidate gene research and marker-assisted selection.

12077321	Association of a lysine-232/alanine polymorphism in a bovine gene encoding acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1) with variation at a quantitative  trait locus for milk fat content. DGAT1 encodes diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (EC ), a microsomal enzyme that catalyzes the final step of triglyceride synthesis. It became a functional candidate gene for lactation traits after studies indicated that mice lacking both copies of DGAT1 are completely devoid of milk secretion, most likely because of deficient triglyceride synthesis in the mammary gland. Our mapping studies placed DGAT1 close to the region of a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on bovine chromosome 14 for variation in fat content of milk. Sequencing of DGAT1 from pooled DNA revealed significant frequency shifts at several variable positions between groups of animals with high and low breeding values for milk fat content  in different breeds (Holstein-Friesian, Fleckvieh, and Braunvieh). Among the variants was a nonconservative substitution of lysine by alanine (K232A), with the lysine-encoding allele being associated with higher milk fat content. Haplotype analysis indicated the lysine variant to be ancestral. Two animals that were typed heterozygous (Qq) at the QTL based on marker-assisted QTL-genotyping were heterozygous for the K232A substitution, whereas 14 animals that are most likely qq at the QTL were homozygous for the alanine-encoding allele. An independent association study in Fleckvieh animals confirmed the positive effect  of the lysine variant on milk fat content. We consider the nonconservative K232A  substitution to be directly responsible for the QTL variation, although our genetic studies cannot provide formal proof.

12350008	Genome-wide scans for QTL affecting carcass traits in Hereford x composite double backcross populations. A genome-wide scan for chromosomal regions influencing carcass traits was conducted spanning 2.413 morgans on 29 bovine autosomes using 229 microsatellite  markers. Two paternal half-sib families of backcross progenies were produced by mating Hereford x composite gene combination (CGC) bulls to both Hereford and CGC dams. Progeny of the first sire (n = 146) were born in 1996 and progeny of the second sire (n = 112) were born in 1997. Each year cattle were fed out and slaughtered serially when they were between 614 and 741 d of age. Phenotypes measured at harvest were: live weight; carcass weight; fat depth; marbling; percentage kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (KPH); and rib eye area. Dressing percentage and USDA Yield Grade were calculated from these data. The phenotypes were adjusted to age-, live weight-, and fat depth-constant endpoints using analysis of covariance. The resulting residuals were analyzed by interval mapping to detect QTL. Within family, nominal significance was established by permutation analysis. Approximate genomewide significance levels were established by applying the Bonferroni correction to the nominal probability levels. Regression and error sums of squares and degrees of freedom were pooled across families when suggestive linkage identified in one family was confirmed in the other. The results indicate promising locations for QTL affecting live weight on BTA 17 and  marbling on BTA 2 that segregate in Bos taurus. Also, previously identified linkage between central markers on BTA 5 and USDA Yield Grade was confirmed in one family. Greater marker saturation in these regions coupled with refined methods for data analysis will lead to more precise determination of QTL positions.

12416823	Detection of quantitative trait loci influencing dairy traits using a model for longitudinal data. A longitudinal-linkage analysis approach was developed and applied to an outbred  population. Nonlinear mixed-effects models were used to describe the lactation patterns and were extended to include marker information following single-marker  and interval mapping models. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting the shape and scale of lactation curves for production and health traits in dairy cattle were mapped in three U.S. Holstein families (Dairy Bull DNA Repository families one, four, and five) using the granddaughter design. Information on 81 informative markers on six Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) was combined with milk yield, fat, and protein percentage and somatic cell score (SCS) test-day records. Six percent of the single-marker tests surpassed the experiment-wise significance threshold. Marker BL41 on BTA3 was associated with decrease in milk yield during  mid-lactation in family one. The scale and shape of the protein percentage lactation curve in family four varied with BMC4203 (BTA6) allele that the son received from the grandsire. Some map locations were associated with variation in the lactation pattern of multiple traits. In family four, the marker HUJI177 (BTA3) was associated with changes in the milk yield and protein percentage curves suggesting a QTL with pleiotropic effects or multiple QTL in the region. The interval mapping model uncovered a QTL on BTA7 associated with variation in milk-yield pattern in family four and a QTL on BTA21 affecting SCS in family five. The developed approach can be extended to random regressions, covariance functions, spline, gametic and variance component models. The results from the longitudinal-QTL approach will help to understand the genetic factors acting at different stages of lactation and will assist in positional candidate gene research. Identified positions can be incorporated into marker-assisted selection decisions to alter the persistency and peak production or the fluctuation of SCS  during a lactation.

12487475	Interval and composite interval mapping of somatic cell score, yield, and components of milk in dairy cattle. Single-marker, interval-mapping (IM) and composite interval mapping (CIM) were used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling milk, fat and protein yields, and somatic cell score (SCS). A granddaughter design was used to combine  molecular genetic information with predicted transmitting abilities (PTA) and estimated daughter yield deviations (DYD) from eight Dairy Bull DNA Repository Holstein families. Models that included and excluded weights accounting for the uncertainty of the response variable were evaluated in each trait, family and phenotype (DYD and PTA) combination. The genotypic information consisted of 174 microsatellite markers along 29 Bos taurus autosomes. The average number of informative markers per autosome was three and the number of informative sons per family and marker varied between 21 and 173. Within-family results from the least squares single-marker analyses were used in expectation-maximization likelihood IM and CIM implemented with QTL Cartographer. Different CIM model specifications, offering complementary control on the background QTL outside the interval under study, were evaluated. Permutation techniques were used to calculate the genome-wide threshold test statistic values based on 1,000 samples. Results from  the DYD and PTA analyses were highly consistent across traits and families. The minor differences in the estimates from the models that accounted for or ignored  the uncertainty of the DYD (variance) and PTA (inverse of reliability) may be associated to the elevated and consistent precision of the DYD and PTA among sons. The CIM model best supported by the data had 10 markers controlling for background effects. On autosome (BTA) three, a QTL at 32 cM influencing protein yield was located in family five and a QTL at 74 cM for fat yield was located in  family eight. Two map positions associated with SCS were detected on BTA 21, one  at 33 cM in family one and the other at 84 cM in family three. A QTL for protein  yield was detected between 26 and 36 cM on BTA six, family six, and a QTL for milk yield was detected at 116 cM on BTA seven in family three. The IM and CIM approaches detected a QTL at 3 cM on BTA 14 influencing fat yield in family four. Two map positions on BTA 29 were associated with significant variation of milk (0 cM) and fat yield (14 cM) in family seven. These results suggest the presence of  one QTL with pleiotropic effects on multiple traits or multiple QTL within the marker interval. Findings from this study could be used in subsequent fine-mapping work and applied to marker-assisted selection of dairy production and health traits.

12487480	A genome scan for quantitative trait loci affecting milk production in Norwegian  dairy cattle. An autosomal genome scan for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting milk production traits was carried out on the Norwegian Dairy Cattle population. Six half-sibling families with a total of 285 sons organized according to a granddaughter design were analyzed by a multiple marker regression method. Suggestive QTL for one or several of the five milk traits (milk yield, protein percentage, protein yield, fat percentage and fat yield) were detected on chromosomes 3, 5, 6, 11, 13, 18 and 20. Among these results, the findings on chromosomes 3, 6, and 20 are highly supported by literature. The most convincing  result was found close to marker FBN9 on chromosome 6, where a QTL was detected with alleles that cause a marked reduction in both protein and fat percentages and an increase in milk yield. The results for fat and protein percentage were highly significant even after accounting for multiple testing across the genome.  Using bootstrapping, a 95% confidence interval for the position of the QTL for the percentage traits on chromosome 6 was estimated to 16 cM.

12512625	Characterization of the DGAT1 gene in the New Zealand dairy population. Recently, DGAT1 was identified as the gene that underlies the QTL for bovine milk production on chromosome 14. This study investigated the effect of the reported polymorphism in three dairy breeds in New Zealand. Statistically significant results were identified for milk fat, milk protein, and volume for Jersey and Holstein-Friesian breeds, and only milk volume for Ayrshires. The average allele  substitution effects were 2 to 3 kg of protein and 120 to 130 l milk for both the Jersey and Holstein-Friesian breeds. For milk fat, the average allele substitution effect was 6 kg for Holstein-Friesians and 3 kg for Jerseys. In all  breeds, where the polymorphism increased milk fat yield, it decreased milk protein yield and milk volume.

12542147	Evaluation of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in CAPN1 for association with meat  tenderness in cattle. Micromolar calcium activated neutral protease (CAPN1) was evaluated as a candidate gene for a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on BTA29 affecting meat tenderness by characterization of nucleotide sequence variation in the gene. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were identified by sequencing all 22 exons  and 19 of the 21 introns in two sires (Piedmontese x Angus located at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center in Clay Center, NE; Jersey x Limousin located at AgResearch in New Zealand) of independent resource populations previously shown to be segregating meat tenderness QTL on BTA29. The majority of the 38 SNP were found in introns or were synonymous substitutions in the coding regions, with two exceptions. Exons 14 and 9 contained SNP that were predicted to alter the protein sequence by the substitution of isoleucine for valine in Domain III of the protein, and alanine for glycine in Domain II of the protein. The resource populations were genotyped for these two SNP in addition to six intronic polymorphisms and two silent substitutions. Analysis of genotypes and shear force values in both populations revealed a difference between paternal CAPN1 alleles in which the allele encoding isoleucine at position 530 and glycine at position 316 associated with decreased meat tenderness (increased shear force values) relative to the allele encoding valine at position 530 and alanine at position 316 (P < 0.05). The association of maternal alleles with meat tenderness phenotypes is consistent with the hypothesis of CAPN1 as the gene underlying the  QTL effect in two independent resource populations and presents the possibility of using these markers for selective breeding to reduce the numbers of animals with unfavorable meat tenderness traits.

12586713	Molecular dissection of a quantitative trait locus: a phenylalanine-to-tyrosine substitution in the transmembrane domain of the bovine growth hormone receptor is associated with a major effect on milk yield and composition. We herein report on our efforts to improve the mapping resolution of a QTL with major effect on milk yield and composition that was previously mapped to bovine chromosome 20. By using a denser chromosome 20 marker map and by exploiting linkage disequilibrium using two distinct approaches, we provide strong evidence  that a chromosome segment including the gene coding for the growth hormone receptor accounts for at least part of the chromosome 20 QTL effect. By sequencing individuals with known QTL genotype, we identify an F to Y substitution in the transmembrane domain of the growth hormone receptor gene that is associated with a strong effect on milk yield and composition in the general population.

12605852	Detection of genes influencing economic traits in three French dairy cattle breeds. A project of QTL detection was carried out in the French Holstein, Normande, and  Montbliarde dairy cattle breeds. This granddaughter design included 1 548 artificial insemination bulls distributed in 14 sire families and evaluated after a progeny-test for 24 traits (production, milk composition, persistency, type, fertility, mastitis resistance, and milking ease). These bulls were also genotyped for 169 genetic markers, mostly microsatellites. The QTL were analysed  by within-sire linear regression of daughter yield deviations or deregressed proofs on the probability that the son receives one or the other paternal QTL allele, given the marker information. QTL were detected for all traits, including those with a low heritability. One hundred and twenty QTL with a chromosome-wise  significance lower than 3% were tabulated. This threshold corresponded to a 15% false discovery rate. Amongst them, 32 were genome-wise significant. Estimates of their contribution to genetic variance ranged from 6 to 40%. Most substitution effects ranged from 0.6 to 1.0 genetic standard deviation. For a given QTL, only  1 to 5 families out of 14 were informative. The confidence intervals of the QTL locations were large and always greater than 20 cM. This experiment confirmed several already published QTL but most of them were original, particularly for non-production traits.

12613879	Quantitative trait loci mapping of functional traits in the German Holstein cattle population. A whole-genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for functional traits was performed in the German Holstein cattle population. For this purpose, 263 genetic markers across all autosomes and the pseudoautosomal region of the sex chromosomes were genotyped in 16 granddaughter-design families with 872 sons. The traits investigated were deregressed breedingvalues for maternal and direct effects on dystocia (DYSm, DYSd) and stillbirth (STIm, STId) as well as maternal  and paternal effects on nonreturn rates of 90 d (NR90m, NR90p). Furthermore, deregressed breeding values for functional herd life (FHL) and daughter yield deviation for somatic cell count (SCC) were investigated. Weighted multimarker regression analyses across families and permutation tests were applied for the detection of QTL and the calculation of statistical significance. A ten percent genomewise significant QTL was localized for DYSm on chromosome 8 and for SCC on  chromosome 18. A further 24 putative QTL exceeding the 5% chromosomewise threshold were detected. On chromosomes 7, 8, 10, 18, and X/Yps, coincidence of QTL for several traits was observed. Our results suggest that loci with influence on udder health may also contribute to genetic variance of longevity. Prior to implementation of these QTL in marker assisted selection programs for functional  traits, information about direct and correlated effects of these QTL as well as fine mapping of their chromosomal positions is required.

12703637	Search for pleiotropic QTL on chromosome BTA6 affecting yield traits of milk production. The primary aim of this study was to investigate whether previous findings of similar quantitative trait loci (QTL) positions for correlated yield traits are due to a pleiotropic QTL. We applied a multitrait variance component based QTL mapping method to a dataset involving five granddaughter families from the German Holstein dairy cattle population. The marker map contained 16 microsatellite markers, distributed across chromosome BTA6. A chromosomewise significance threshold was used, because BTA6 is known to harbor QTL for several milk traits.  To evaluate the results from the multivariate, across-family analysis, we also conducted single-family analyses using the least squares method of QTL estimation. The results provided two significant QTL findings at 49 and 64 cM for milk yield in different families and putative QTL at 68 cM for fat yield and at 71 cM for protein yield in another family. The results for fat and protein yield  were confirmed by a univariate, across-family variance components analysis. The multivariate analysis of three bivariate trait combinations resulted in a significant pleiotropic QTL finding at 68 cM for fat yield and protein yield, bracketed by markers TGLA37 and FBN13. The estimates of variance contribution due to this QTL were 23% and 25%, respectively.

12729552	Combined analysis of data from two granddaughter designs: A simple strategy for QTL confirmation and increasing experimental power in dairy cattle. A joint analysis of five paternal half-sib Holstein families that were part of two different granddaughter designs (ADR- or Inra-design) was carried out for five milk production traits and somatic cell score in order to conduct a QTL confirmation study and to increase the experimental power. Data were exchanged in a coded and standardised form. The combined data set (JOINT-design) consisted of  on average 231 sires per grandsire. Genetic maps were calculated for 133 markers  distributed over nine chromosomes. QTL analyses were performed separately for each design and each trait. The results revealed QTL for milk production on chromosome 14, for milk yield on chromosome 5, and for fat content on chromosome  19 in both the ADR- and the Inra-design (confirmed within this study). Some QTL could only be mapped in either the ADR- or in the Inra-design (not confirmed within this study). Additional QTL previously undetected in the single designs were mapped in the JOINT-design for fat yield (chromosome 19 and 26), protein yield (chromosome 26), protein content (chromosome 5), and somatic cell score (chromosome 2 and 19) with genomewide significance. This study demonstrated the potential benefits of a combined analysis of data from different granddaughter designs.

12778594	Quantitative trait loci affecting milk production traits in Finnish Ayrshire dairy cattle. A whole genome scan of Finnish Ayrshire was conducted to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting milk production. The analysis included 12 half-sib families  containing a total of 494 bulls in a granddaughter design. The families were genotyped with 150 markers to construct a 2764 cM (Haldane) male linkage map. In  this study interval mapping with multiple-marker regression approach was extended to analyse multiple chromosomes simultaneously. The method uses identified QTL on other chromosomes as cofactors to increase mapping power. The existence of multiple QTL on the same linkage group was also analyzed by fitting a two-QTL model to the analysis. Empirical values for chromosome-wise significance thresholds were determined using a permutation test. Two genome-wise significant  QTL were identified when chromosomes were analyzed individually, one affecting fat percentage on chromosome (BTA) 14 and another affecting fat yield on BTA12. The cofactor analysis revealed in total 31 genome-wise significant QTL. The result of two-QTL analysis suggests the existence of two QTL for fat percentage on BTA3. In general, most of the identified QTL confirm results from previous studies of Holstein-Friesian cattle. A new QTL for all yield components was identified on BTA12 in Finnish Ayrshire.

12805560	Mapping of quantitative trait loci controlling trypanotolerance in a cross of tolerant West African N'Dama and susceptible East African Boran cattle. Trypanosomosis, or sleeping sickness, is a major disease constraint on livestock  productivity in sub-Saharan Africa. To identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling resistance to trypanosomosis in cattle, an experimental cross was made between trypanotolerant African N'Dama (Bos taurus) and trypanosusceptible improved Kenya Boran (Bos indicus) cattle. Sixteen phenotypic traits were defined describing anemia, body weight, and parasitemia. One hundred seventy-seven F2 animals and their parents and grandparents were genotyped at 477 molecular marker loci covering all 29 cattle autosomes. Total genome coverage was 82%. Putative QTL were mapped to 18 autosomes at a genomewise false discovery rate of <0.20. The results are consistent with a single QTL on 17 chromosomes and two QTL on BTA16. Individual QTL effects ranged from approximately 6% to 20% of the phenotypic variance of the trait. Excluding chromosomes with ambiguous or nontrypanotolerance effects, the allele for resistance to trypanosomosis originated from the N'Dama parent at nine QTL and from the Kenya Boran at five QTL, and at four QTL there is evidence of an overdominant mode of inheritance. These results suggest that selection for trypanotolerance within an F2 cross between N'Dama and Boran cattle could produce a synthetic breed with higher trypanotolerance levels than currently exist in the parental breeds.

12836959	Population-wide analysis of a QTL affecting milk-fat production in the Israeli Holstein population. A population-wide linkage disequilibrium on bovine chromosome 14 between microsatellite ILSTS039 and DGAT1, a putative quantitative trait locus affecting  milk production traits, was found in the Israeli Holstein population. A total of  394 bulls were genotyped for both DGAT1 and ILSTS039, and 1747 cows were genotyped for ILSTS039. The ILSTS039 allele termed "225," and the DGAT1 K allele  (substitution of a lysine residue with alanine), were associated with decreased milk production, and increased fat production and fat and protein percent. The number of 225 ILSTS039 and K DGAT1 alleles per individual were the same for 80% of the bulls genotyped. From the effects associated with cows homozygous for the  225 allele, the effect of the quantitative trait locus appears to be approximately codominant. The substitution effect was 0.16% fat. Genotype probabilities for the quantitative gene were determined for the entire Israeli Holstein milk-recorded population, including 507,725 cows and 1442 bulls, using segregation analysis. Overall frequency of the allele that increased fat percent  was 8.9% in cows and 15.5% in bulls. The frequency of this allele decreased from  1981 until 1990, from 15 to 5%, and since has increased to 10%. The effects estimated on the population-wide analyses of both cows and bulls were similar to  the effect associated with DGAT1 in the daughters of genotyped bulls. Modified animal model evaluations were computed for the entire population with the effect  of this gene included in the model. The correlations between the modified and standard animal model evaluations for all traits were > 0.99.

12926772	Effects of DGAT1 variants on milk production traits in German cattle breeds. Various QTL mapping experiments led to the detection of a QTL in the centromeric  region of cattle chromosome 14 that had a major effect on the fat content of milk. Recently, the gene encoding diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (DGAT1) was proposed to be a positional and functional candidate for this trait. This study investigated the effects of a nonconservative lysine to alanine (K232A) substitution in DGAT1, which very likely represents the causal mutation, on milk  production traits. Existing granddaughter designs for Fleckvieh and German Holstein, the two major dairy/dual-purpose breeds in Germany, were used to estimate allele frequencies and gene substitution effects for milk, fat, and protein yield, as well as fat and protein content. A restriction fragment length  polymorphism assay was applied to diagnose the K232A substitution in DGAT1. Estimates of the allele frequencies for the lysine-encoding variant were based on maternally inherited alleles in sons and amounted to 0.072 for Fleckvieh and 0.548 for German Holstein. Effects of DGAT1 variants on content traits were pronounced; estimates of the gene substitution effect for the lysine-encoding variant were 0.35 and 0.28% for fat content and 0.10 and 0.06% for protein content in Fleckvieh and German Holstein, respectively. Conversely, negative effects of the lysine variant of -242 to -180 kg for Fleckvieh and -260 to -320 kg for German Holstein were revealed for milk yield from first to third lactation, resulting in enhanced fat yield of 7.5 to 14.8 kg in Fleckvieh and 7.6 to 10.7 kg in German Holstein. For protein yield, however, mainly negative effects of -3.6 to 0.2 kg in Fleckvieh and -4.8 to -5.2 kg in German Holstein were observed. Pearson correlations between residuals of milk yield and content traits were decreased when omitting DGAT1 effects in the analysis, thereby indicating that DGAT1 contributes to negative correlations between these traits.  Molecular tests allow for the direct selection among variants; however, the benefits of the alternative alleles depend on economic weights given to the different milk production traits in the breeding goal.

12926773	Fine mapping of quantitative trait loci and assessment of positional candidate genes for backfat on bovine chromosome 14 in a commercial line of Bos taurus. Backfat thickness is one of the major quantitative traits that affect carcass quality in beef cattle. In this study, we have fine mapped a QTL for backfat EBV  on bovine chromosome 14, using an identical-by-descent haplotype-sharing analysis, in a commercial line of Bos taurus. We also examined the association between gene-specific single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers of the genes diacylgcerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) and thyroglobulin (TG) and the backfat EBV. The results indicate that the QTL region for backfat identified on chromosome 14 is in agreement with previous studies. However, neither of the two  polymorphisms of candidate genes tested, DGAT1 nor TG, showed a significant (P >  0.10) association with the backfat EBV in the cattle populations examined. However, a strong association (P = 0.0058) was detected between a microsatellite  marker (CSSM66) lying approximately mid-way between the two candidate genes and the backfat EBV. These results suggest that other SNP of DGAT1, TG, or other gene(s) in the chromosomal region should be examined to test whether they have a  significant effect on lipid metabolism.

12926775	Detection of quantitative trait loci for growth and beef carcass fatness traits in a cross between Bos taurus (Angus) and Bos indicus (Brahman) cattle. This study was conducted to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting growth and beef carcass fatness traits in an experimental population of Angus and Brahman crossbreds. The three-generation mapping population was generated with 602 progeny from 29 reciprocal backcross and three F2 full-sib families, and 417  genetic markers were used to produce a sex-averaged map of the 29 autosomes spanning 2,642.5 Kosambi cM. Alternative interval-mapping approaches were applied under line-cross (LC) and random infinite alleles (RA) models to detect QTL segregating between and within breeds. A total of 35 QTL (five with genomewide significant and 30 with suggestive evidence for linkage) were found on 19 chromosomes. One QTL affecting yearling weight was found with genomewide significant evidence for linkage in the interstitial region of bovine autosome (BTA) 1, and an additional 19 QTL were detected with suggestive evidence for linkage under the LC model. Many of these QTL had a dominant (complete or overdominant) mode of gene action, and only a few of the QTL were primarily additive, which reflects the fact that heterosis for growth is known to be appreciable in crosses among Brahman and British breeds. Four QTL affecting growth were detected with genomewide significant evidence for linkage under the RA model on BTA 2 and BTA 6 for birth weight, BTA 5 for yearling weight, and BTA  23 for hot carcass weight. An additional 11 QTL were detected with suggestive evidence for linkage under the RA model. None of the QTL (except for yearling weight on BTA 5) detected under the RA model were found by the LC analyses, suggesting the segregation of alternate alleles within one or both of the parental breeds. Our results reveal the utility of implementing both the LC and RA models to detect dominant QTL and also QTL with similar allele frequency distributions within parental breeds.

12939094	Polymorphism of the bovine CSN1S1 promoter: linkage mapping, intragenic haplotypes, and effects on milk production traits. The bovine CSN1S1 5' flanking region (CSN1S1-5') was screened for polymorphisms in different cattle breeds. Single-strand conformation polymorphisms (SSCP) and sequence analyses revealed four alleles (1-4), two of them being new allelic forms (3 and 4). Sequences were deposited in GenBank with accession numbers AF549499-502. In alleles 1 and 4, potential transcription factor binding sites are altered by the mutations. Using SSCP analysis, all four alleles were identified in German Holsteins. Six intragenic haplo-types comprising CSN1S1-5' (alleles 1, 2, 3, 4) and exon 17 (CSN1S1*B and C) genotypes were found. Linkage mapping using half-sib families from the German QTL project positioned CSN1S1 between the markers FBN14 and CSN3, with 5.6 cM distance between CSN1S1 and CSN3. Variance analysis, using family and CSN1S1 promoter genotypes as fixed effects, of breeding values and deregressed proofs for milk production traits (milk, fat,  and protein yield and also fat and protein percentage) revealed significant effects on protein percentage when all families and genotypes were considered. Contrast calculations assigned a highly significant effect to genotype 24, which  was associated with highest LS-means for protein percentage breeding values. As CSN1S1 is one of the main caseins in milk, this could be an effect of mutations in regulatory elements in the promoter region. An effect on milk yield breeding values was indicated for genotype 12, but is probably caused by a linked locus.

14510671	DGAT1, a new positional and functional candidate gene for intramuscular fat deposition in cattle. Intramuscular fat content, also assessed as marbling of meat, represents an important beef quality trait. Recent work has mapped a quantitative trait locus (QTL) with an effect on marbling to the centromeric region of bovine chromosome 14, with the gene encoding thyroglobulin (TG) being proposed as a positional and  functional candidate gene for this QTL. Recently, the gene encoding diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase (DGAT1), which also has been mapped within the region of the marbling QTL, has been demonstrated to affect the fat content of milk. In the present study, the effects of a 5'-polymorphism of TG and of a lysine/alanine polymorphism of DGAT1 on the fat content of musculus (m.) semitendinosus and m. longissimus dorsi in 55 bovine animals (28 German Holstein  and 27 Charolais) has been investigated. Significant effects were found for both  candidate genes in both the breeds. These effects seem to be independent of one another because the alleles of the two polymorphisms showed no statistically significant disequilibrium. The DGAT1 effect is mainly on the m. semitendinosus.  The TG polymorphism only affects m. longissimus dorsi. However, both intramuscular fat enhancing effects seem to be recessive. The possibility of two  linked loci, acting recessively on intramuscular fat content, will require special strategies when selecting for higher marbling scores.

14556700	Genetics of resistance to mastitis in dairy cattle. Genetic variability of mastitis resistance is well established in dairy cattle. Many studies focused on polygenic variation of the trait, by estimating heritabilities and genetic correlation among phenotypic traits related to mastitis such as somatic cell counts and clinical cases. The role of Major Histocompatibility Complex in the susceptibility or resistance to intrammamary infection is also well documented. Finally, development from molecular genome mapping led to accumulating information of quantitative trait loci (QTL) related  to mastitis resistance and better understanding of the genetic determinism of the trait. From economic and genetic analyses, and according to welfare and food safety considerations and to breeders and consumer's concern, there is more and more evidence that mastitis should be included in breeding objective of dairy cattle breeds. Many countries have implemented selection for mastitis resistance  based on linear decrease of somatic cell counts. Given biological questioning, potential unfavourable consequences for very low cell counts cows are regularly investigated. Improvement of selection accuracy for mastitis resistance is ongoing and includes: advances in modelling, optimal combination of mastitis related traits and associated predictors, such as udder morphology, definition of global breeding objective including production and functional traits, and inclusion of molecular information that is now available from QTL experiments.

14677852	Detection of quantitative trait loci for growth and carcass composition in cattle. The objective of the present study was to detect quantitative trait loci for economically important traits in a family from a Bos indicus x Bos taurus sire. A Brahman x Hereford sire was used to develop a half-sib family (n = 547). The sire was mated to Bos taurus cows. Traits analyzed were birth (kg) and weaning weights (kg); hot carcass weight (kg); marbling score; longissimus area (cm2); USDA yield grade; estimated kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (%); fat thickness (cm); fat yield (%); and retail product yield (%). Meat tenderness was measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force (kg) at 3 and 14 d postmortem. Two hundred and thirty-eight markers were genotyped in 185 offspring. One hundred and thirty markers were used to genotype the remaining 362 offspring. A total of 312 markers were used in the final analysis. Seventy-four markers were common to both groups. Significant QTL (expected number of false-positives < 0.05) were observed for birth weight and longissimus area on chromosome 5, for longissimus area on chromosome 6, for retail product yield on chromosome 9, for birth weight on chromosome 21, and for marbling score on chromosome 23. Evidence suggesting (expected number of false-positives < 1) the presence of QTL was detected for several traits. Putative QTL for birth weight were detected on chromosomes 1, 2,  and 3, and for weaning weight on chromosome 29. For hot carcass weight, QTL were  detected on chromosomes 10, 18, and 29. Four QTL for yield grade were identified  on chromosomes 2, 11, 14, and 19. Three QTL for fat thickness were detected on chromosomes 2, 3, 7, and 14. For marbling score, QTL were identified on chromosomes 3, 10, 14, and 27. Four QTL were identified for retail product yield  on chromosomes 12, 18, 19, and 29. A QTL for estimated kidney, pelvic, and heart  fat was detected on chromosome 15, and a QTL for meat tenderness measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force at 3 d postmortem was identified on chromosome 20. Two QTL were detected for meat tenderness measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force at 14 d postmortem on chromosomes 20 and 29. These results present a complete scan in all available progeny in this family. Regions underlying QTL need to be assessed in other populations.

14691316	Mapping of QTL for Body Conformation and Behavior in Cattle. Genome scans for quantitative trait loci (QTL) in farm animals have concentrated  on primary production and health traits, and information on QTL for other important traits is rare. We performed a whole genome scan in a granddaughter design to detect QTL affecting body conformation and behavior in dairy cattle. The analysis included 16 paternal half-sib families of the Holstein breed with 872 sons and 264 genetic markers. The markers were distributed across all 29 autosomes and the pseudoautosomal region of the sex chromosomes with average intervals of 13.9 cM and covering an estimated 3155.5 cM. All families were analyzed jointly for 22 traits using multimarker regression and significance thresholds determined empirically by permutation. QTL that exceeded the experiment-wise significance threshold (5% level) were detected on chromosome 6 for foot angle, teat placement, and udder depth, and on chromosome 29 for temperament. QTL approaching experiment-wise significance (10% level) were located on chromosome 6 for general quality of feet and legs and general quality  of udder, on chromosome 13 for teat length, on chromosome 23 for general quality  of feet and legs, and on chromosome 29 for milking speed. An additional 51 QTL significant at the 5% chromosome-wise level were distributed over 21 chromosomes. This study provides the first evidence for QTL involved in behavior of dairy cattle and identifies QTL for udder conformation on chromosome 6 that could form  the basis of recently reported QTL for clinical mastitis.

14731222	Identification of quantitative trait loci for growth and carcass composition in cattle. A genomic screening to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting growth, carcass composition and meat quality traits was pursued. Two hundred nineteen microsatellite markers were genotyped on 176 of 620 (28%) progeny from a Brahman  x Angus sire mated to mostly MARC III dams. Selective genotyping, based on retail product yield (%) and fat yield (%), was used to select individuals to be genotyped. Traits included in the study were birth weight (kg), hot carcass weight (kg), retail product yield, fat yield, marbling score (400 = slight00 and  500 = small00), USDA yield grade, and estimated kidney, heart and pelvic fat (%). The QTL were classified as significant when the expected number of false positives (ENFP) was less than 0.05 (F-statistic greater than 17.3), and suggestive when the ENFP was <1 (F-statistic between 10.2 and 17.3). A significant QTL (F = 19; ENFP = 0.02) was detected for marbling score at centimorgan (cM) 54 on chromosome 2. Suggestive QTL were detected for fat yield at 50 cM, for retail product yield at 53 cM, and for USDA yield grade at 63 cM on chromosome 1, for marbling score at 56 cM, for retail product yield at 70 cM, and for estimated kidney, heart and pelvic fat at 79 cM on chromosome 3, for marbling score at 44 cM, for hot carcass weight at 49 cM, and for estimated kidney, heart  and pelvic fat at 62 cM on chromosome 16, and for fat yield at 35 cM on chromosome 17. Two suggestive QTL for birth weight were identified, one at 12 cM  on chromosome 20 and the other at 56 cM on chromosome 21. An additional suggestive QTL was detected for retail product yield, for fat yield, and for USDA yield grade at 26 cM on chromosome 26. Results presented here represent the initial search for quantitative trait loci in this family. Validation of detected QTL in other populations will be necessary.

14753343	Assessment of positional candidate genes myf5 and igf1 for growth on bovine chromosome 5 in commercial lines of Bos taurus. Quantitative trait loci for growth traits in beef cattle have been previously reported and fine-mapped in three chromosomal regions of 0 to 30 cM, 55 to 70 cM, and 70 to 80 cM of bovine chromosome 5. In this study, we further examined the association between gene-specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of two positional candidate genes, bovine myogenic factor 5 (myf5) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (igf1), in the QTL regions and the birth weight (BWT), preweaning average daily gain (PWADG), and average daily gain on feed (ADGF) in commercial lines of Bos taurus. The QTL regions for the growth traits identified using a haplotype association analysis, which included the gene-specific SNP markers for  both genes in this study, were in agreement with previous studies. The gene-specific SNP marker association analysis indicated that the SNP in myf5 had  a significant additive effect on PWADG in the M1 line of Beefbooster Inc. (P < 0.10), and a significant additive effect (P < 0.05) and a significant dominance effect (P < 0.10) on ADGF in the M3 line of Beefbooster Inc. When the data from the two commercial lines were pooled, the SNP in myf5 showed a significant association with PWADG (P < 0.10) and with ADGF (P < 0.05). The association between the SNP and BWT, however, did not reach a significance level in the M1 line, the M3 line, or across the lines. For igf1, no significant association between the SNP and the growth traits was detected in either the M1 line or the M3 line, whereas there was only a significant dominance effect (P < 0.10) on BWT  detected for the SNP in igfl when the data from the two commercial lines were pooled. These results suggest that myf5 is a strong candidate gene that influences PWADG and ADGF in beef cattle. The SNP of igf1 may not be a causative  or close to the causative mutation that affects the three growth traits in the populations of beef cattle examined in this study. Other SNP of igf1 and myf5 or  other genes in their respective chromosomal regions, however, should also be studied.

14762086	The DGAT1 K232A mutation is not solely responsible for the milk production quantitative trait locus on the bovine chromosome 14. The gene, acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase1 (DGAT1), was recently identified as the one underlying the quantitative trait locus (QTL) for milk production traits in the centromeric region of the bovine chromosome 14. Until now, 2 alleles, the lysine variant (increasing fat yield, fat and protein percentage) and the alanine variant (increasing protein and milk yield), were postulated at DGAT1. This study investigated whether the diallelic DGAT1 polymorphism is responsible for all the genetic variation at the centromeric region of this chromosome for milk, fat, and protein yield and fat and protein percentage. A statistical model was applied to a granddaughter design to analyze  16 German Holstein families. The model included the diallelic DGAT1 effect and the QTL transition probability estimated for each chromosomal position by a multiple marker approach. Because the regression coefficient of this probability  was corrected for the diallelic DGAT1 polymorphism, it represented a putative conditional QTL effect. The effect of the DGAT1 gene was always highly significant. The conditional QTL effect was significant genomewise for fat percentage at the proximal end of the chromosome and for protein percentage at a  more distal chromosomal region. Additional chromosomewise significance was found  for fat and protein yield. Our results suggest an additional source of genetic variance on this chromosome for these traits; either one or more additional alleles segregating at DGAT1 that were not previously detected, a second quantitative trait locus affecting these traits, or both.

14762087	Quantitative trait Loci for health traits in Finnish Ayrshire cattle. A whole-genome scan was conducted to search for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting health traits in Finnish Ayrshire dairy cattle. The mapping population  consisted of 12 bulls and their 491 sons in a granddaughter design. A total of 150 markers were typed covering all 29 autosomes. The traits under study were somatic cell score, mastitis, and a group of other veterinary treatments. Effects of the QTL and positions were estimated with the regression method. When carrying out interval mapping on each chromosome, cofactors were used to adjust for QTL identified at other chromosomes. Empirical P-values were obtained by permutation. Altogether 17 QTL were detected with genomewise significant P-values in the across family analysis. Quantitative trait loci affecting SCS were identified on  chromosomes 1, 3, 11, 18, 21, 24, 27, 29, and QTL for mastitis on chromosomes 14, 18. Quantitative trait loci for other veterinary treatments were found on chromosomes 1, 2, 5, 8, 15, 22, and 23. The allele substitution effects were from 0.5 to 1.7 genetic standard deviations. The positions of these health QTL did not overlap with milk QTL detected in previous studies of the same population.

14762090	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting milk production, health, and reproductive traits in Holstein cattle. We report putative quantitative trait loci affecting female fertility and milk production traits using the merged data from two research groups that conducted independent genome scans in Dairy Bull DNA Repository grandsire families to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting economically important traits. Six families used by both groups had been genotyped for 367 microsatellite markers covering 2713.5 cM of the cattle genome (90%), with an average spacing of 7.4 cM. Phenotypic traits included PTA for pregnancy rate and daughter deviations for milk, protein and fat yields, protein and fat percentages, somatic cell score, and productive life. Analysis of the merged dataset identified putative quantitative trait loci that were not detected in the separate studies, and the pregnancy rate PTA estimates that recently became available allowed detection of  pregnancy rate QTL for the first time. Sixty-one putative significant marker effects were identified within families, and 13 were identified across families.  Highly significant effects were found on chromosome 3 affecting fat percentage and protein yield, on chromosome 6 affecting protein and fat percentages, on chromosome 14 affecting fat percentage, on chromosome 18 affecting pregnancy rate, and on chromosome 20 affecting protein percentage. Within-family analysis detected putative QTL associated with pregnancy rate on six chromosomes, with the effect on chromosome 18 being the most significant statistically. These findings  may help identify the most useful markers available for QTL detection and, eventually, for marker-assisted selection for improvement of these economically important traits.

14762091	A complete genome scan of the Israeli Holstein population for quantitative trait  loci by a daughter design. Eleven Israeli Holstein families including 5221 cows were analyzed by a daughter  design for eight economic traits: milk, fat and protein production, fat and protein percentage, somatic cell score (SCS), herd-life, and female fertility. The cows were genotyped for 73 microsatellites with maximum spacing between markers of 53 cM. There were 86,304 informative genotypes. Preliminary analysis was by ANOVA of each trait, with the marker effect nested within sire. Significance was determined by controlling the false discovery rate at 0.4, after excluding markers with genome-wide significance for at least a single trait, and  traits without any significant effects at this level. Thus, four markers on chromosomes 6 and 14 and female fertility were excluded. There remained 40 significant marker-trait combinations, and it is expected that 24 of these are true effects. To perform interval mapping for the families with significant contrasts, 21 additional markers were genotyped on chromosomes 2, 7, and 27. The  bootstrap confidence intervals for gene effect did not include zero for protein percent on chromosome 2 and fat yield, protein yield, and SCS on chromosome 7. Quantitative trait locus heterozygosity was 33%, which is consistent with the hypothesis that only two alleles are segregating with unequal allele frequency.

14762092	Quantitative trait loci mapping for dairy cattle production traits using a maximum likelihood method. A maximum likelihood method was developed for QTL mapping in half-sib designs and compared to the regression method in analyses of both field and simulated data. The field data consisted of milk production evaluations of 433 progeny tested sons of 6 sires and 64 microsatellite markers distributed over 12 chromosomes. Based on permutation tests, 5 significant QTL were detected in the field data by  the regression method compared with 10 by the maximum likelihood method (P < 0.05). In field data analysis, the maximum likelihood method detected more significant QTL and had a smaller residual variance than the regression method. The simulation included 9 scenarios differing in number of families, family size, QTL variance, and marker density, each replicated 100 times. The simulation results suggested that, as for the regression method, the precision of estimating QTL from the maximum likelihood method improves with increasing number of sons per sire, increasing the ratio of QTL to phenotypic variance, and decreasing marker interval. The maximum likelihood method had a smaller dispersion of estimated QTL positions than the regression method in 6 of 9 scenarios simulated. Overall, the maximum likelihood method shows potential advantage in QTL detection over the regression method, especially in the situations with less favorable conditions for QTL detection.

14983021	Genetic and functional confirmation of the causality of the DGAT1 K232A quantitative trait nucleotide in affecting milk yield and composition. We recently used a positional cloning approach to identify a nonconservative lysine to alanine substitution (K232A) in the bovine DGAT1 gene that was proposed to be the causative quantitative trait nucleotide underlying a quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting milk fat composition, previously mapped to the centromeric  end of bovine chromosome 14. We herein generate genetic and functional data that  confirm the causality of the DGAT1 K232A mutation. We have constructed a high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism map of the 3.8-centimorgan BULGE30-BULGE9 interval containing the QTL and show that the association with milk fat percentage maximizes at the DGAT1 gene. We provide evidence that the K allele has undergone a selective sweep. By using a baculovirus expression system, we have expressed both DGAT1 alleles in Sf9 cells and show that the K allele, causing an increase in milk fat percentage in the live animal, is characterized by a higher Vmax in producing triglycerides than the A allele.

15080315	Identification and fine mapping of quantitative trait loci for backfat on bovine  chromosomes 2, 5, 6, 19, 21, and 23 in a commercial line of Bos taurus. Backfat thickness is one of the major quantitative traits that affects carcass quality in beef cattle. In this study, we identified and fine-mapped QTL for backfat EBV on bovine chromosomes 2, 5, 6, 19, 21, and 23 using an identical-by-descent haplotype-sharing analysis in a commercial line of Bos taurus. Eleven haplotypes were found to have significant associations with backfat EBV at the comparison-wise P-value threshold, and one at the chromosome-wise P-value threshold on bovine chromosomes 5, 6, 19, 21, and 23. On  average, the 12 significant haplotypes had an effect of 0.62 SD on backfat EBV, ranging from 0.38 SD to 1.33 SD. The 12 significant haplotypes spanned nine chromosomal regions, one on chromosome 5 (65.4 to 70.0 cM), three on 6 (8.2 to 11.8 cM, 63.6 to 68.1 cM, and 81.5 to 83.0 cM), three on 19 (4.8 to 15.9 cM, 39.4 to 46.5 cM, and 65.7 to 99.5 cM), one on 21 (46.1 to 53.1 cM), and one on 23 (45.1 to 50.9 cM). Among the nine chromosomal regions, six were new QTL regions and three showed remarkable agreement with QTL regions that were previously reported. Eight of the nine QTL regions were localized to less than or close to 10 cM in genetic distance. The results provide a useful reference for further positional candidate gene research and marker-assisted selection for backfat.

15147392	Evidence for quantitative trait loci affecting twinning rate in North American Holstein cattle. Twinning in dairy cattle has been associated with many negative health and reproductive events that cause economic loss to the producer. Reports have suggested that twinning rates are increasing and that there may be a positive relationship between milk production and twinning frequency. Putative quantitative trait loci (QTL) for twinning and ovulation rate on bovine chromosomes 5, 7, 19 and 23 have been previously identified in other populations. The objective of this study was to detect and possibly confirm the existence and  effects of these QTL in the North American Holstein population. Half-sib families of 20 North American Holstein sires with above average twinning rate predicted transmitting abilities (PTA) comprised the sample population under investigation. Twinning rate PTA values had been estimated from calving data. DNA extracted from semen samples was analysed using 45-61 microsatellite markers across the four chromosomes. Marker heterozygosity of the patriarchs averaged 62%. Evidence of twinning QTL was found in multiple families on chromosomes 5, 7 and 23 and in one family on chromosome 19. Four of the sires formed one three-generation family: one sire and three half-sib sons with sons of their own. This extended family was analysed with additional markers confirming a twinning QTL of significant size on chromosome 5.

15202654	Fine mapping of milk production QTL on BTA6 by combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis. Combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis were used to refine the position of a previously detected QTL affecting milk production traits on bovine  chromosome 6. Through a series of single- and multitrait and single- and multipoint QTL analyses, the QTL could be positioned to a 7.5-cM interval surrounded by the markers BMS2508 and FBN12. The most significant results were found for fat percentage and protein percentage. This effect seemed to be caused  by a QTL allele embedded in one specific marker haplotype that caused a reduction in fat and protein yields and a concomitant increase of milk yield, thus resulting in a marked reduction of fat and protein percentages.

15265069	Identification of an ovulation rate QTL in cattle on BTA14 using selective DNA pooling and interval mapping. Increased twinning incidence in beef cattle has the potential to improve production efficiency. However, phenotypic selection for twinning rate is difficult because of the trait's low heritability and the long time interval necessary to collect phenotypic records. Therefore, this trait and the correlated trait of ovulation rate are ideal candidates for marker-assisted selection. The objective of this study was to complete a genome-wide search for ovulation rate quantitative trait loci (QTL) in two related sire families. The families (paternal halfsib sires 839802 and 839803) were from a population of cattle selected for ovulation rate at the USDA Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, Nebraska. Putative ovulation rate QTL have previously been identified in the 839802 family on chromosomes 7 and 19; however, marker coverage in the original scan was not complete. This study fills the gaps in marker coverage of the earlier study by adding approximately 60 informative microsatellites to each sire family. Each family was genotyped using selective DNA pooling. Sons and daughters were included in either the high or low pool based on their estimated breeding value deviations from the mid-parent average (EBVMD) for ovulation rate. Approximately 40% (839802) and 26% (839803) of available progeny comprised the high and low pools combined. Pooled typing revealed possible associations (nominal P < 0.05) between ovulation rate and marker genotype for 11 and 15 microsatellites in the 839802 and 839803 families, respectively. Subsequent interval mapping strengthened support for the presence of an ovulation rate QTL on BTA14 (chromosome-wise P < 0.02).

15328290	Quantitative trait loci affecting health traits in Swedish dairy cattle. The purpose of this study was to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting health traits in Swedish dairy cattle. A genome scan covering 17 chromosomes was  performed. Ten grandsire families were used in a granddaughter design. Nine of the families belonged to the Swedish Red and White breed, which is related to other Nordic Ayrshire breeds, and one family was of the Swedish Holstein breed. A total of 417 bulls were genotyped for 116 microsatellite markers distributed over 17 chromosomes. Daughter yield deviations for clinical mastitis, somatic cell count (SCC), and other diseases (OD) were included in the analysis. Least squares interval mapping using putative QTL as cofactors was applied both within and across grandsire families. Significance thresholds were set by permutation tests. In the across-family analysis, we detected 8 suggestive QTL and 3 QTL significant at the genome level. The QTL affecting clinical mastitis were found on 3 chromosomes (9, 11, and 25), 4 QTL for SCC were found (on chromosomes 5, 9, 11, and 23), and we detected 4 QTL for OD (on chromosomes 9, 11, 15, and 25). In addition, we found several QTL that segregated within single families but where the QTL effect was not significant in the across-family analysis. In conclusion,  we were able to locate QTL for all 3 analyzed traits, and overlapping QTL for several traits were observed.

15342524	Mapping of multiple quantitative trait loci affecting bovine spongiform encephalopathy. A whole-genome scan was conducted to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for BSE resistance or susceptibility. Cows from four half-sib families were included and  173 microsatellite markers were used to construct a 2835-cM (Kosambi) linkage map covering 29 autosomes and the pseudoautosomal region of the sex chromosome. Interval mapping by linear regression was applied and extended to a multiple-QTL  analysis approach that used identified QTL on other chromosomes as cofactors to increase mapping power. In the multiple-QTL analysis, two genome-wide significant QTL (BTA17 and X/Y(ps)) and four genome-wide suggestive QTL (BTA1, 6, 13, and 19) were revealed. The QTL identified here using linkage analysis do not overlap with regions previously identified using TDT analysis. One factor that may explain the disparity between the results is that a more extensive data set was used in the present study. Furthermore, methodological differences between TDT and linkage analyses may affect the power of these approaches.

15342525	Evidence for multiple alleles at the DGAT1 locus better explains a quantitative trait locus with major effect on milk fat content in cattle. A quantitative trait locus (QTL) for milk fat percentage has been mapped consistently to the centromeric region of bovine chromosome 14 (BTA14). Two independent studies have identified the nonconservative mutation K232A in the acylCoA-diacylglycerol-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) gene as likely to be causal for  the observed variation. Here we provide evidence for additional genetic variability at the same QTL that is associated with milk fat percentage variation within the German Holstein population. Namely, we show that alleles of the DGAT1  promoter derived from the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism are associated with milk fat content in animals homozygous for the allele 232A at DGAT1. Our results present another example for more than two trait-associated alleles being involved in a major gene effect on a quantitative trait. The segregation of multiple alleles affecting milk production traits at the QTL on BTA14 has to be considered whenever marker-assisted selection programs are implemented in dairy cattle. Due to the presence of a potential transcription factor binding site in the 18mer element of the VNTR, the variation in the number of tandem repeats of the 18mer element might be causal for the variability in the transcription level of the DGAT1 gene.

15377635	Whole genome scan to detect chromosomal regions affecting multiple traits in dairy cattle. Chromosomal regions affecting multiple traits (multiple trait quantitative trait  regions or MQR) in dairy cattle were detected using a method based on results from single trait analyses to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL). The covariance between contrasts for different traits in single trait regression analysis was computed. A chromosomal region was considered an MQR when the observed covariance between contrasts deviated from the expected covariance under the null hypothesis of no pleiotropy or close linkage. The expected covariance and the confidence interval for the expected covariance were determined by permutation of the data. Four categories of traits were analyzed: production (5 traits), udder conformation (6 traits), udder health (2 traits), and fertility (2 traits). The analysis of a granddaughter design involving 833 sons of 20 grandsires resulted in 59 MQR (alpha = 0.01, chromosomewise). Fifteen MQR were found on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 14. Four or more MQR were found on BTA 6, 13,  19, 22, 23, and 25. Eight MQR involving udder conformation and udder health and 4 MQR involving production traits and udder health were found. Five MQR were identified for combinations of fertility and udder conformation traits, and another 5 MQR were identified for combinations of fertility and production traits. For 22 MQR, the difference between the correlation attributable to the MQR and the overall genetic correlation was >0.60. Although the false discovery rate was relatively high (0.52), it was considered important to present these results to assess potential consequences of using these MQR for marker-assisted selection.

15466433	Mapping of a milk production quantitative trait locus to a 420-kb region on bovine chromosome 6. A QTL affecting milk production traits was previously mapped to an interval of 7.5 cM on chromosome 6 in Norwegian dairy cattle. This article aimed to refine this position by increasing the map density in the region by a set of single-nucleotide polymorphisms and analyzing the data with a combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium approach. Through a series of single- and multitrait and single- and multipoint analyses, the QTL was positioned to an interval surrounded by the genes ABCG2 and LAP3. As no recombinations were detected in this interval, physical mapping was required for further refining. By using radiation hybrid mapping as well as BAC clones, the bovine and human comparative  maps in the region are resolved, and the QTL is mapped within a distance of 420 kb.

15514072	Multiple quantitative trait loci mapping with cofactors and application of alternative variants of the false discovery rate in an enlarged granddaughter design. The experimental power of a granddaughter design to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) in dairy cattle is often limited by the availability of progeny-tested sires, by the ignoring of already identified QTL in the statistical analysis, and by the application of stringent experimentwise significance levels. This study describes an experiment that addressed these points. A large granddaughter design was set up that included sires from two countries (Germany and France), resulting in almost 2000 sires. The animals were genotyped for markers on nine different chromosomes. The QTL analysis was done for six traits separately using a multimarker regression that included putative QTL on other chromosomes as cofactors in the model. Different variants of the false discovery rate (FDR) were applied. Two of them accounted for the proportion of truly null hypotheses, which were estimated to be 0.28 and 0.3, respectively, and were therefore tailored to the experiment. A total of 25 QTL could be mapped when cofactors were included in the model-7 more than without cofactors. Controlling the FDR at 0.05 revealed 31  QTL for the two FDR methods that accounted for the proportion of truly null hypotheses. The relatively high power of this study can be attributed to the size of the experiment, to the QTL analysis with cofactors, and to the application of  an appropriate FDR.

15523155	New SSCP polymorphism within bovine STAT5A gene and its associations with milk performance traits in Black-and-White and Jersey cattle. Milk protein genes expression in cows' mammary epithelial cells is regulated mostly by the action of prolactin mediated through the STAT5A transcription factor. The STAT5A gene is a potential quantitative trait locus (QTL) and genetic marker of production traits in dairy cattle. The sequence of the bovine STAT5A gene was analysed in this study to investigate if mutations in this sequence might be responsible for quantitative variations in milk yield and composition. Ten PCR fragments representing most important functional domains of STAT5A were screened for polymorphism. Using the SSCP method a new SNP (A/G) was found, located in intron 9 at position 9501 (GenBank AJ237937). The frequencies of alleles were estimated in 186 Black-and-White cows (0.52 and 0.48 for A and G, respectively) and in 138 Jersey cows (0.58 and 0.42 for A and G, respectively). For Black-and-White cows with different STAT5A genotypes no significant associations between STAT5A genotypes and milk performance traits were found. Statistically significant differences in the first and second lactations for milk yield, fat and protein content were found in Jersey cows. Cows with the GG genotype showed the highest milk yield, while cows with genotypes AA and AG showed higher protein contents when compared to cows with the GG genotype. Interestingly, cows with genotype AG showed significantly higher protein yields in comparison to cows with the AA genotype. For fat content, cows with genotype AA showed the highest level of this trait in the 1st and 2nd lactation. Further studies are necessary to evaluate an allele substitution effect in the population of sib-families of STAT5A heterozygous bulls.

15537758	Identification and fine mapping of quantitative trait loci for growth traits on bovine chromosomes 2, 6, 14, 19, 21, and 23 within one commercial line of Bos taurus. We report the identification and fine mapping of QTL for birth weight (BWT), preweaning ADG (PWADG), and postweaning ADG on feed (ADGF) in a commercial line of Bos taurus using an identical-by-descent haplotype sharing method. One hundred seventy-six calves of 12 bulls (9 to 30 male calves from each sire) of the Beefbooster, Inc., M1 line were typed using 71 genetic markers from bovine chromosomes (BTA) 2, 6, 14, 19, 21, and 23 (8 to 16 markers from each chromosome). Sixteen haplotypes were found to have significant (P <0.05) associations with BWT at the comparison-wise threshold. The 16 haplotypes span 13 chromosomal regions, two on BTA 2 (9.1 to 22.5 cM and 95.0 to 100.3 cM), three on BTA 6 (8.2 to 11.8 cM, 35.5 to 49.7 cM, and 83.0 to 86.2 cM), three on BTA 14 (26.0 to 26.7 cM, 36.2 to 46.2 cM, and 52.0 to 67.7 cM), one on BTA 19 (52.0 to 52.7 cM), two on BTA 21 (9.9 to 20.4 cM and 28.2 to 46.1 cM), and two on BTA 23 (23.9 to 36.0 cM and 45.1 to 50.9 cM). Thirteen haplotypes spanning seven chromosomal regions significantly affected (P <0.05) PWADG at the comparison-wise threshold. The seven chromosomal regions include two regions on BTA 6 (11.8 to 44.2 cM and 83.0 to 86.2 cM), one on BTA 14 (26.7 to 50.8 cM), one on BTA 19 (4.8 to 15.9 cM), one on BTA 21 (9.9 to 20.4 cM), and two on BTA 23 (17.3 to 36.0 cM and 45.1 to 50.9 cM). For ADGF, 11 haplotypes were identified to have significant associations (P <0.05) at the comparison-wise threshold. The 11 haplotypes represented eight chromosomal regions, one on BTA 2 (9.1 to 22.5 cM), two on BTA  6 (49.7 to 50.1 cM and 59.6 to 63.6 cM), two on BTA 14 (17.0 to 24.0 cM and 36.2  to 46.2 cM), two on BTA 19 (52.0 to 52.7 cM and 65.1 to 65.7 cM), and one on BTA  21 (46.1 to 53.1 cM). The QTL regions identified and fine mapped in this study will provide a reference for future positional candidate gene research and marker-assisted selection of various growth traits.

15537759	Quantitative trait loci analysis for growth and carcass traits in a half-sib family of purebred Japanese Black (Wagyu) cattle. We used a half-sib family of purebred Japanese Black (Wagyu) cattle to locate economically important quantitative trait loci. The family was composed of 348 fattened steers, 236 of which were genotyped for 342 microsatellite markers spanning 2,664 cM of 29 bovine autosomes. The genome scan revealed evidence of 15 significant QTL (<5% chromosome-wise level) affecting growth and carcass traits.  Of the 15 QTL, six QTL were significant at the 5% experiment-wise level and were  located in bovine chromosomes (BTA) 4, 5, and 14. We analyzed these three chromosomes in more detail in the 348 steers, with an average marker interval of  1.2 cM. The second scan revealed that the same haplotype of the BTA 4 region (52  to 67 cM) positively affected LM area and marbling. We confirmed the QTL for carcass yield estimate on BTA 5 in the region of 45 to 54 cM. Five growth-related QTL located on BTA 14, including slaughter and carcass weights, were positively affected by the same region of the haplotype of BTA 14 (29-51 cM). These data should provide a useful reference for further marker-assisted selection in the family and positional cloning research. The research indicates that progeny design with moderate genotyping efforts is a powerful method for detecting QTL in a purebred half-sib family.

15566467	Quantitative trait loci for male reproductive traits in beef cattle. The objective of the present study was to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for male reproductive traits in a half-sib family from a Bos indicus (Brahman) x  Bos taurus (Hereford) sire. The sire was mated with MARC III (1/4 Hereford, 1/4 Angus, 1/4 Red Poll and 1/4 Pinzgauer) cows. Testicular traits were measured from 126 male offspring born in 1996 and castrated at 8.5 months. Traits analysed were concentration of follicle stimulating hormone in peripheral blood at castration (FSH), paired testicular weight (PTW) and paired testicular volume (PTV) adjusted for age of dam, calculated age at puberty (AGE), and body weight at castration (BYW). A putative QTL was observed for FSH on chromosome 5. The maximum F-statistic was detected at 70 cM from the beginning of the linkage group. Animals inheriting the Hereford allele had a 2.47-ng/ml higher concentration of FSH than those inheriting the Brahman allele. Evidence also suggests the existence of a putative QTL on chromosome 29 for PTW, PTV, AGE and BYW. The maximum F-statistic was detected at cM 44 from the beginning of the linkage group for PTW, PTV and AGE, and at cM 52 for BYW. Animals that inherited the Brahman allele at this chromosomal region had a 45-g heavier PTW, a 42-cm(3) greater PTV, a 39-day younger AGE and a 22.8-kg heavier BYW, compared with those inheriting the Hereford allele. This is the first report of QTL for male reproductive traits in cattle.

15591400	Estimation of quantitative trait loci parameters for milk production traits in German Holstein dairy cattle population. The main objective of this study was to estimate the proportion of total genetic  variance attributed to a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on Bos taurus autosome 6  (BTA6) for milk production traits in the German Holstein dairy cattle population. The analyzed chromosomal region on BTA6 spanned approximately 70 cM, and contained 6 microsatellite markers. Milk production data were obtained from routine genetic evaluation for 4500 genotyped German Holstein bulls. Technical aspects related to the estimation of model parameters for a large data set from routine genotype recording were outlined. A fixed QTL model and a random QTL model were introduced to incorporate marker information into parameter estimation and genetic evaluation. Estimated QTL variances, expressed as the ratio of QTL to polygenic variances, were 0.04, 0.03, and 0.07 for milk yield; 0.06, 0.08, and 0.14 for fat yield; and 0.04, 0.04, and 0.11 for protein yield, in the first 3 parities, respectively. The estimated QTL positions, expressed as distances from  the leftmost marker DIK82, were 18, 31, and 17 cM for milk yield; 25, 17, and 9 cM for fat yield; and 16, 30, and 17 cM for protein yield in the 3 respective parities. Because the data for the parameter estimation well represented the current population of active German Holstein bulls, the QTL parameter estimates have been used in routine marker-assisted genetic evaluation for German Holsteins.

15689626	DNA marker mining of ILSTS035 microsatellite locus on chromosome 6 of Hanwoo cattle. We describe tests for detecting and locating quantitative trait loci (QTL) for traits in Hanwoo cattle. From results of a permutation test to detect QTL for marbling, we selected the microsatellite locus ILSTS035 on chromosome 6 for further analysis. K-means clustering analysis applied to five traits and nine DNA markers in ILSTS035 resulted in three cluster groups. Finally we employed the bootstrap test method to calculate confidence intervals using the resampling method to find major DNA markers. We conclude that the major markers of ILSTS035  locus on chromosome 6 of Hanwoo cattle are markers 235 bp and 266 bp.

15781588	The bovine PPARGC1A gene: molecular characterization and association of an SNP with variation of milk fat synthesis. Several studies in a variety of breeds have reported at least two QTL for milk production traits, including milk fat synthesis on bovine chromosome 6 (BTA6), comprising a region that comparatively has been mapped to equivalent syntenic chromosome intervals in human, pig, and mouse harboring loci associated with type II diabetes and obesity-related traits. We identified the bovine peroxysome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha gene (PPARGC1A) as a plausible positional and functional candidate gene for a previously described QTL for milk fat yield on BTA6 because of its chromosomal position and its key role in energy, fat, and glucose metabolism. To analyze the role of the bovine PPARGC1A gene in regulation of milk fat synthesis in dairy cattle, we determined  its cDNA sequence, genomic organization, chromosomal localization, and expression pattern. The bovine PPARGC1A gene is organized in 13 exons comprising 6,261 bp and is expressed at different levels in a large number of tissues. Bovine PPARGC1A cDNA and protein sequences showed substantial similarity (92-95%) to its respective orthologs from human, rat, and mouse. Screening for polymorphisms in the coding sequence, exon/intron boundaries, 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions, and promoter region of the PPARGC1A gene in sires with a different genotype at the QTL for milk fat yield as well as in a multibreed panel revealed a total of 11 polymorphic loci. A significant association between an SNP in intron 9 of the PPARGC1A gene and milk fat yield was observed in a major dairy cattle population, indicating that the PPARGC1A gene could be involved in genetic variation underlying the QTL for milk fat synthesis on BTA6.

15867146	Fine-mapping milk production quantitative trait loci on BTA6: analysis of the bovine osteopontin gene. Bovine chromosome six (BTA6) harbors up to six quantitative trait loci (QTL) influencing the milk production of dairy cattle. In stark contrast to human, there is long-range linkage disequilibrium in dairy cattle, which has previously  made it difficult to identify the mutations underlying these QTL. Using 38 microsatellite markers in a pedigree of 3,147 Holstein bulls, we fine mapped regions of BTA6 that had previously been shown to harbor QTL. Next, we sequenced  a 12.3-kb region harboring Osteopontin, a positional candidate for the statistically most significant of the identified QTL. Nine mutations were identified, and only genotypes for the OPN3907 indel were concordant with the QTL genotypes of eight bulls that were established by segregation analysis. Four of these mutations were genotyped, and a joint linkage/linkage disequilibrium mapping analysis was used to demonstrate the existence of only two functionally distinct clusters of haplotypes within the QTL region, which were uniquely defined by OPN3907 alleles. We estimate a probability of 0.40 that no other mutation within this region is concordant with the QTL genotypes of these eight bulls. Finally, we demonstrate that the motif harboring OPN3907, which is upstream of the promoter and within a region known to harbor tissue-specific osteopontin regulatory elements, is moderately conserved among mammals. The motif was not retrieved from database queries and may be a novel regulatory element.

15998908	Identification of a missense mutation in the bovine ABCG2 gene with a major effect on the QTL on chromosome 6 affecting milk yield and composition in Holstein cattle. We previously localized a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 6 affecting milk fat and protein concentration to a 4-cM confidence interval, centered on the microsatellite BM143. We characterized the genes and sequence variation in this region and identified common haplotypes spanning five polymorphic sites in the genes IBSP, SPP1, PKD2, and ABCG2 for two sires heterozygous for this QTL. Expression of SPP1 and ABCG2 in the bovine mammary gland increased from parturition through lactation. SPP1 and all the coding exons of ABCG2 and PKD2 were sequenced for these two sires. The single nucleotide change capable of encoding a substitution of tyrosine-581 to serine (Y581S) in the ABCG2 transporter was the only polymorphism corresponding to the segregation  status of all 3 heterozygous and 15 homozygous sires for the QTL in the Israeli and U.S. Holstein populations. The allele substitution fixed effects on the genetic evaluations of 335 Israeli sires were -341 kg milk, +0.16% fat, and +0.13% protein (F-value = 200). No other polymorphism gave significant effect for fat and protein concentration in models that also included Y581S. The allele substitution effects on the genetic evaluations of 670 cows, daughters of two heterozygous sires, were -226 kg milk, 0.09% fat, and 0.08% protein (F-value = 394), with partial dominance towards the 581S homozygotes. We therefore propose that Y581S in ABCG2 is the causative site for this QTL.

16026340	Genome screen for twinning rate QTL in four North American Holstein families. The objective of this study was to identify twinning rate quantitative trait loci (QTL) by typing pooled samples in a preliminary screening followed by interval mapping to test QTL effects. Four elite North American Holstein half-sib sire families with high twinning rate predicted transmitting abilities (PTA) were used in this study. Chromosomes 5, 7, 19 and 23 were not genotyped as these chromosomes were scanned for QTL in these families in a previous study. DNA was extracted from phenotypically extreme sons in each sire family. Two pools were prepared from sons of sires in each phenotypic tail, two each for high and low PTA levels for twinning rates. Each pool contained DNA from 4 to 15% of all sons  of the sire depending on family. A total of 268 fluorescently labelled microsatellite markers were tested for heterozygosity in sires. About 135--170 informative markers per family were genotyped using pooled DNA samples. Based on  the preliminary evidence for potential twinning rate QTL from pooled typing, interval mapping was performed subsequently on 12 chromosomal regions by family combinations. Evidence of QTL for twinning rate was found in one family on BTA 21 and 29 at a chromosome-wide P<0.05 and on BTA 8, 10 and 14 with a chromosome-wide P<0.01.

16060496	An independent confirmation of a quantitative trait locus for milk yield and composition traits on bovine chromosome 26. Several reports have demonstrated that bovine chromosome 26 (BTA26) harbours significant or suggestive quantitative trait loci (QTL) for milk production and composition traits in dairy cattle. Our previous study showed that a C/T substitution in the bovine TCF7L2 gene on BTA26 was significantly linked to QTL for protein yield (PY) in a Canadian dairy cattle population. Actually, this polymorphism was one of the markers derived from a genome-wide screening of QTL for milk PY using an amplified fragment length polymorphism technique combined with a DNA pooling strategy. In the present study, 990 Holstein bulls with complete genotype and phenotype data from 14 sire families were analysed to confirm, if the QTL effects exist in other populations. Statistical analysis revealed that this marker was significantly associated with PY, protein percentage, milk yield and fat yield (FY) (p < 0.001) in the US Holstein population. These results indicate that this QTL region has a pleiotrophic effecton different milk traits and is portable in different populations.

16151698	Identification of a 1.1-Mb region for a carcass weight QTL onbovine Chromosome 14. We previously mapped a quantitative trait locus for carcass weight, designated Carcass Weight-1 (CW-1), to bovine Chromosome 14 using a purebred Wagyu pedigree  based on progeny design analysis. To refine the critical region within 8.1 cM flanked by microsatellites BMS1941 and INRA094, we constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) contig composed of 60 tiled BAC clones and prepared a high-density physical map including 80 microsatellites, of which 55 were developed in this study. We conducted linkage disequilibrium (LD) mapping in the  CW-1 region with 47 microsatellites using paternal half-sib pedigrees whose sires exhibited homozygous CW-1 Q alleles in the region. The LD mapping study significantly narrowed the CW-1 locus to the 1.1-Mb region between microsatellites DIK7012 and DIK7020. Finally, we surveyed the 1.1-Mb-region genotypes of 1700 steers from 11 bulls having -/-, Q/-, or Q/Q alleles in the region, and we examined the effect of the CW-1 Q allele on carcass weight. The presence of the first Q increased carcass weight by 23.6 kg (95% confidence interval [CI], 17.6-29.5 kg), and the second Q increased carcass weight an additional 15.2 kg (95% CI, 10.7-19.7 kg). These results indicate the presence of a gene responsible for carcass weight within the 1.1-Mb region.

16160037	Identification of genetic markers for fat deposition and meat tenderness on bovine chromosome 5: development of a low-density single nucleotide polymorphism  map. As genetic markers, SNP are well suited for the development of genetic tests for  production traits in livestock. They are stable through many generations and can  provide direct assessment of individual animal's genetic merit if they are in linkage disequilibrium and phase with functional genetic variation. Bovine chromosome 5 has been shown to harbor genetic variation affecting production traits in multiple cattle populations; thus, this chromosome was targeted for SNP-based marker development and subsequent association analysis with carcass and growth phenotypes. Discovery of SNP was performed in a panel of 16 sires representing two sires from each of seven beef breeds and two Holstein sires by PCR amplification and sequencing using primers designed from genomic sequence obtained by low-coverage sequencing of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones. From 550 SNP, 296 (54%) were tentatively identified as having a minor allele frequency >10%. Forty-five SNP derived from 15 BAC were chosen based on minor allele frequency and were genotyped in 564 steers and their sires. Production and carcass data were collected on the steers as a part of the Germplasm Evaluation (GPE), Cycle VII Project at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center (Clay Center, NE), which involves of the evaluation of sires from seven of the most popular U.S. breeds. Haplotypes based on seven SNP derived from a BAC containing the bovine genes HEM1 and PDE1B were associated with traits related to carcass fat. Steers homozygous for the major haplotype had 0.15 +/- 0.04 cm less  subcutaneous fat, 0.57 +/- 0.18 kg less rib fat, 0.18 +/- 0.07 lower yield grade, 1.11 +/- 0.35% less predicted fat yield, and 0.79 +/- 0.3% greater predicted retail product yield than heterozygotes. The frequency of the major haplotype was 0.70 in the steers, and it ranged from 0.44 (Limousin) to 0.98 (Simmental and Gelbvieh) in a panel consisting of an average of 20 purebred sires from each of the seven breeds. A second set of haplotypes based on four SNP derived from a BAC containing the genes NOL1 and CHD4 was associated with Warner-Bratzler shear force. Steers homozygous for the major haplotype had 0.27 +/- 0.11 kg greater shear force than those heterozygous for the major haplotype and one of two minor  haplotypes. The frequency of the major haplotype was 0.59 in the steers and ranged from 0.27 (Hereford) to approximately 0.95 (Angus and Red Angus) in the panel of purebred sires. These results demonstrate the feasibility of targeting QTL regions for SNP-based marker development and that a low level of coverage can identify markers associated with phenotypic traits.

16167984	Whole-genome scan to detect QTL for milk production, conformation, fertility and  functional traits in two US Holstein families. A genome scan was conducted in two US Holstein half-sib families to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting milk production and conformation traits using the granddaughter design. The sires of the two studied families were related as sire and son and had 96 and 212 sons respectively. A total of 221 microsatellite loci were scored in both families. Statistical analysis was performed using two different analytical methods; half-sib least squares regression and Bayesian Monte Carlo Markov Chain. Traits analysed included five traditional milk production traits, somatic cell count, daughter pregnancy rate,  male fertility and 20 conformation traits. A total of 47 tests achieved at least  genome-wise significance. However, results from the two methods of analysis were  only concordant for QTL location and level of significance in eight instances.

16172504	Fine mapping and physical characterization of two linked quantitative trait loci  affecting milk fat yield in dairy cattle on BTA26. Previously, a highly significant QTL affecting fat yield and protein yield and mapped to the bovine BTA26 chromosome has been reported to segregate in the French Holstein cattle population. To confirm and refine the location of this QTL, the original detection experiment was extended by adding 12 new families and genotyping 25 additional microsatellite markers (including 11 newly developed markers). Data were then analyzed by an approach combining both linkage and linkage disequilibrium information, making it possible to identify two linked QTL separated by 20 cM corresponding to approximately 29 Mb. The presence of a QTL affecting protein yield was confirmed but its position was found to be more telomeric than the two QTLunderlying fat yield. Each identified QTL affecting milk fat yield was physically mapped within a segment estimated to be <500 kb. Two strong functional candidate genes involved, respectively, in fatty acid metabolism and membrane permeability were found to be localized within this segment while other functional candidate genes were discarded. A haplotype comprising the favorable allele at each QTL position appears to be overrepresented in the artificial insemination bull population.

16230712	Effects of the osteopontin gene variants on milk production traits in dairy cattle. Osteopontin (OPN) is a highly phosphorylated glycoprotein whose gene has been cloned and sequenced in different species. Several whole genome scans have identified quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting milk production traits on bovine chromosome 6 close to the osteopontin gene (OPN) location. The presence of OPN in milk and its elevated expression in mammary gland epithelial cells together with previous QTL studies have prompted us to investigate the effects of OPN variants on milk production traits in the Holstein dairy cattle population. A single nucleotide polymorphism in intron 4 (C/T) was detected and primers were designed to amplify genomic DNA from 1362 bulls obtained from Cooperative Dairy DNA Repository and from 214 cows from the University of Wisconsin herd. For the Repository population, the C allele was associated with an increase in milk protein percentage and milk fat percentage. Correlation between milk protein percentage and milk fat percentage was about 0.57. For the University of Wisconsin herd, the estimates of the effects of allele C were in the same direction as for the Repository population, although these estimates did not reach statistical significance. Our results are consistent with other studies that showed a significant association of the microsatellite markers in the region of OPN with milk protein percentage and other correlated traits.

16230715	Detection of quantitative trait loci influencing conformation traits and calving  ease in Holstein-Friesian cattle. An extension of our previous genome scan of a North American Holstein-Friesian population was conducted to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting conformation traits. Resource families consisted of 1404 sons of 10 elite sires.  Genome coverage was estimated to be 2713.5 cM (90%) for 406 markers using a granddaughter design. Regression interval mapping was used to detect QTL affecting 22 conformation traits, including body, udder, feet and legs, and dairy conformation as well as calving ease. Analysis of the families jointly identified 41 chromosome-wise significant QTL influencing conformation traits and 3 significant QTL influencing calving ease on 20 chromosomes. The false discovery rate method was used to account for multiple testing and 3/4 of the suggestive and 5/6 of significant QTL should be real effects. Fourteen of the 44 QTL were significant at the genome-wise level. Comparison of these results with other published reports identifies common QTL affecting conformation traits. Regions on 10 chromosomes appear to affect multiple traits, including conformation, milk production, and somatic cell score, within these particular US Holstein families. Additional work is needed to determine the precise locations of the QTL and select positional candidate genes influencing these traits.

16428646	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting milk production traits on bovine chromosome 6 in a Chinese Holstein population by the daughter design. Fourteen microsatellite markers with a coverage of 63.5 cM on bovine chromosome 6 were selected, and 26 sire families with 2,260 daughters were analyzed for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting 5 milk production traits in a Chinese Holstein population. In the analyses across 26 families and within the largest significant families with a one-QTL model fitted, a QTL near BMS470 was detected that affected fat yield at the 5% experiment-wide significance level. When a 2-QTL model was fitted in the across-family analysis, it was found that there might exist 2 QTL affecting the 3 yield traits, although the exact or empirical thresholds for the significance testing were unknown. In all analyses,  the results for milk yield and protein yield were generally consistent, which might have resulted from the same genetic background for milk and protein yield.

16533362	Mapping of quantitative trait loci for lactation persistency traits in German Holstein dairy cattle. A whole genome scan to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for persistency of milk  yield (PMY), persistency of fat yield (PFY), persistency of protein yield (PPY) and persistency of milk energy yield (PEY) was performed in a granddaughter design in the German Holstein dairy cattle population. The analysis included 16 paternal half-sib families with a total of 872 bulls. The analysis was carried out for the first lactation and for the first three lactations combined using univariate weighted multimarker regression. Controlling the false discovery rate  across traits and data sets at a level of 0.15 and treating the four persistency  traits as different traits revealed 27 significant QTL. A total of 12 chromosomes showed significant QTL effects on a chromosomewise basis. The DGAT1 effect was highly significant for PPY and protein yield. A haplotype analysis using results  of previous studies of the same design revealed a co-segregation of various persistency QTL and QTL affecting health traits like dystocia and stillbirth and  functional traits like non-return rate 90 and somatic cell score.

16648641	Linkage disequilibrium on the bovine X chromosome: characterization and use in quantitative trait locus mapping. We herein demonstrate that in the Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle population, microsatellites are as polymorphic on the X chromosome as on the autosomes but that the level of linkage disequilibrium between these markers is higher on the X chromosome than on the autosomes. The latter observation is not compatible with the small male-to-female ratio that prevails in this population and results in a  higher gonosomal than autosomal effective population size. It suggests that the X chromosome undergoes distinct selective or mutational forces. We describe and characterize a novel Markovian approach to exploit this linkage disequilibrium to compute the probability that two chromosomes are identical-by-descent conditional on flanking marker data. We use the ensuing probabilities in a restricted maximum-likelihood approach to search for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting 48 traits of importance to the dairy industry and provide evidence for the presence of QTL affecting 5 of these traits on the bovine X chromosome.

16702292	Multitrait quantitative trait Loci mapping for milk production traits in danish Holstein cattle. The aims of this study were (1) to confirm previously identified quantitative trait loci (QTL) on bovine chromosomes 6, 11, 14, and 23 in the Danish Holstein cattle population, (2) to assess the pleiotropic nature of each QTL on milk production traits by building multitrait and multi-QTL models, and (3) to include pedigree information on nongenotyped individuals to improve the estimation of genetic parameters underlying the random QTL model. Nineteen grandsire families were analyzed by single-trait (ST) and multitrait (MT) QTL mapping methods. The variance component-based QTL mapping model was implemented via restricted maximum likelihood (REML) to estimate QTL position and parameters. Segregation of the previously identified QTL was confirmed on bovine chromosomes 6, 11, and 14, but  not on 23. A highly significant (1% chromosome-wise level) QTL was found on chromosome 6, between 37 and 73 cM. This QTL had a strong effect on protein percentage (PP) and fat percentage (FP) according to ST analyses, and effects on  PP, FP, milk yield (MY), fat yield (FY), and protein yield (PY) in MT analyses. A QTL affecting PP was detected on chromosome 11 (at 70 cM) using ST analysis. The  MT analysis revealed a second QTL (at 67 cM) approaching significance with an effect on MY. The ST analysis identified a QTL for MY and FP on chromosome 14, between 10 and 24 cM. The extended pedigree (nongenotyped animals) was included to estimate genetic parameters underlying the random QTL model; that is, additive polygenic and QTL variances. In general, the estimates of the QTL variance components were smaller but more precise when the extended pedigree was considered in the analysis.

16734691	Refinement of quantitative trait loci on bovine chromosome 18 affecting health and reproduction in US Holsteins. Selection for increased milk yield is associated with decreased fertility in US Holsteins. Previously, a putative quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 18 affecting daughter pregnancy rate (DPR) was identified in one family. Our aim was to determine the validity of the QTL using additional markers and an extended pedigree. Twelve markers were genotyped in 940 descendants of the original sire in which the QTL was identified. Analysis of the extended pedigree detected significant and suggestive QTL for DPR, productive life and somatic cell score. Further analysis is underway to refine the QTL region so that positional candidate genes can be identified.

16751675	The role of the bovine growth hormone receptor and prolactin receptor genes in milk, fat and protein production in Finnish Ayrshire dairy cattle. We herein report new evidence that the QTL effect on chromosome 20 in Finnish Ayrshire can be explained by variation in two distinct genes, growth hormone receptor (GHR) and prolactin receptor (PRLR). In a previous study in Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle an F279Y polymorphism in the transmembrane domain  of GHR was found to be associated with an effect on milk yield and composition. The result of our multimarker regression analysis suggests that in Finnish Ayrshire two QTL segregate on the chromosomal region including GHR and PRLR. By sequencing the coding sequences of GHR and PRLR and the sequence of three GHR promoters from the pooled samples of individuals of known QTL genotype, we identified two substitutions that were associated with milk production traits: the previously reported F-to-Y substitution in the transmembrane domain of GHR and an S-to-N substitution in the signal peptide of PRLR. The results provide strong evidence that the effect of PRLR S18N polymorphism is distinct from the GHR F279Y effect. In particular, the GHR F279Y has the highest influence on protein percentage and fat percentage while PRLR S18N markedly influences protein and fat yield. Furthermore, an interaction between the two loci is suggested.

16840634	Short communication: quantitative trait loci affecting the somatic cell score on  chromosomes 4 and 26 in Italian Holstein cattle. This work aimed to confirm previously reported quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting the somatic cell score (SCS) in dairy cattle on Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) 4 and 26. A granddaughter design with selective genotyping was implemented  that included half-sib families from 12 male lines of Italian Holstein cattle. The animals were genotyped for 5 microsatellite markers each on regions of BTA 4  (average marker spacing 9.42 cM) and BTA 26 (average marker spacing 5.26 cM), previously reported by other authors as carrying QTL for somatic cell count. Quantitative trait loci analyses were performed using interval mapping by regressing sire breeding values for SCS onto genotype probabilities at 1-cM intervals along the 2 chromosome regions. Breeding values for SCS were estimated  for the whole population using a test-day repeatability animal model. Results were not significant on a chromosome basis, but a possible QTL was found at BM4505 on BTA 26, confirming this region for further studies of QTL affecting SCS in the Italian Holstein population.

16899698	Association of toll-like receptor 4 polymorphisms with somatic cell score and lactation persistency in Holstein bulls. Mastitis, an inflammatory disease of the mammary gland generally caused by intramammary infections, is the most frequently occurring disease in the North American dairy industry. Reduced milk yield, milk quality, and lactation persistency as well as early culling contribute to the economic losses associated with this disease. During intramammary infections, cells of the innate immune system become activated through pattern recognition receptors that recognize conserved molecular signatures associated with the invading pathogen. The quality, timing, and intensity of the host inflammatory and subsequent immune response determine the fate of this disease. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is an important pattern recognition receptor that recognizes endotoxins associated with gram-negative bacterial infections. Its role in pathogen recognition and subsequent initiation of the inflammatory and immune response makes it a suitable candidate gene for enhancing disease resistance in Canadian Holsteins. In this study, polymorphisms in the TLR4 gene were identified in the Canadian Holstein bull population. Genotypes and haplotypes were constructed, and their associations with somatic cell score and lactation persistency were determined. Sequencing of selective DNA pools was used to reveal polymorphisms in TLR4. Two DNA pools were constituted based on high and low estimated breeding values for somatic cell scores. A total of 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), including 1 SNP in a putative promoter region (P-226) and 2 SNP in exon3 (E3+1656 and E3+2021) of TLR4 were detected. A total of 388 bulls were genotyped for the SNP, haplotypes were reconstructed, and their frequencies were obtained. Polymorphisms in these regions were found to be associated with estimated breeding values for lactation persistency, and somatic cell scores in the Canadian Holstein bull population. The unfavorable alleles at P-226 and E3+1656 were found at a frequency of 40 and 37%, respectively; hence, selection against these alleles is promising in Canadian Holsteins. Selection against the unfavorable allele, T at E3+2021, is limited because of its low frequency (7%). Two frequently occurring haplotypes (GCC and CTC) occurred in 86% of the Canadian Holstein bull population chosen for genotyping. The most frequent haplotype (GCC; 54%) was found to be associated with higher lactation persistency and lower somatic cell scores. The transversion SNP in the putative promoter region (P-226) was in a potential DNA binding site.

16899702	Quantitative trait loci affecting fertility and calving traits in Swedish dairy cattle. Impaired fertility is the main reason for involuntary culling of dairy cows in Sweden. The objective of this study was to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) influencing fertility and calving traits in the Swedish dairy cattle population.  The traits analyzed were number of inseminations, 56-d nonreturn rate, interval from calving to first insemination, fertility treatments, heat intensity score, stillbirth, and calving performance. A genome scan covering 20 bovine chromosomes was performed using 145 microsatellite markers. The mapping population consisted  of 10 sires and their 417 sons in a granddaughter design. Nine of the sires were  of the Swedish Red Breed, and one was a Swedish Holstein. Least squares regression was used to map loci affecting the analyzed traits, and permutation tests were used to set significance thresholds. Cofactors were used in the analyses of individual chromosomes to adjust for QTL found on other chromosomes.  The use of cofactors increased both the number of QTL found and the significance  level. In the initial analysis, we found 13 suggestive QTL that were mapped to chromosomes 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 20, and 29. When cofactors were included, 30 QTL were detected on chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 18, 19, 22, and 25, in addition to the 8 previously mentioned chromosomes. Some of the results from the cofactor analysis  may be false positives and require further validation. In conclusion, we were able to map several QTL affecting fertility and calving traits in Swedish dairy cattle.

17033032	Effects of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) gene on milk production traits in Holstein dairy cattle. A functional candidate gene approach was used to search for genes affecting milk  production traits in Holstein dairy cattle. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) was chosen because of its involvement in the development  of the mammary gland. Using the pooled genomic DNA sequencing approach, we identified a single nucleotide polymorphism. Genomic DNA was extracted from 1,292 sons obtained from the Cooperative Dairy DNA Repository and from 715 blood samples of daughters of 12 bulls obtained from the University of Wisconsin resource population. Daughter yield deviation data for the sons and yield deviation for the daughters were obtained for milk production traits from the USDA Animal Improvement Programs Laboratory. For the Repository population, allele C was associated with significant increases in milk fat and protein percentages. For the University of Wisconsin population, genotypes CC and CT were associated with significant increases in milk, fat, and protein yields. Results from this study are consistent with previous studies on the role of STAT1 in regulating the transcription of genes involved in milk protein synthesis and fat  metabolism.

17093209	Putative quantitative trait loci associated with the probability of contracting infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis. Infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis, also known as pinkeye, is an economically important disease in cattle. The objective of this study was to detect QTL associated with infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis in offspring from a Brahman x Hereford sire. The sire was mated to Hereford, Angus, and F1 cows to produce 288 offspring in 1994 and mated to MARC III ((1/4) Hereford, (1/4) Angus, (1/4) Red Poll, and (1/4) Pinzgauer) cows in 1996 to produce 259 offspring (547 animals total). Infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis was diagnosed by physical  examination in 36 animals of the family. Records included unilateral and bilateral frequency, but not severity. Records were binary: 0 for unaffected and  1 for affected cattle. A putative QTL for infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis  was identified on chromosome 1, with a maximum F-statistic (F = 10.15; P = 0.0015) at centimorgan 79 of the linkage group. The support interval spanned centimorgans 66 to 110. There was also evidence suggesting the presence of a QTL  for infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis on chromosome 20, with a maximum F-statistic (F = 10.35; P = 0.0014) at centimorgan 16 of the linkage group. The support interval ranged from centimorgan 2 to 35. This report provides the initial evidence of QTL for infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis. Although a candidate gene was identified for one of the regions of interest, further studies are needed to identify the genetic basis of resistance to the disease.

17121600	Association analysis of adiponectin and somatostatin polymorphisms on BTA1 with growth and carcass traits in Angus cattle. This study tested positional candidate genes adiponectin (ADIPOQ) and somatostatin (SST) for effects on carcass traits in a commercially relevant cattle population. Both genes are located within a region of BTA1 previously reported to harbour quantitative trait loci (QTL) that affect marbling, quality grade, yield grade, ribeye area and weaning weight in Bos taurus x Bos indicus crosses. Except for the first intron of ADIPOQ, both genes, including over 2 kb upstream of the promoters, were sequenced in five registered Angus sires to identify polymorphisms. A variable copy duplication and three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in ADIPOQ and one SNP in SST were genotyped and tested for association with 19 traits in a 14-generation pedigree of 1697 registered Angus artificial insemination sires representing all the major USA lineages of the breed. Linear models that parameterized predicted genetic merits in terms of allele substitution effects were fit by weighted least squares, and goodness-of-fit tests were employed to differentiate causal mutations or polymorphisms in strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) with causal mutations from markers in weak LD with QTL. We confirmed the presence of QTL affecting marbling, ribeye muscle area and fat thickness in the vicinity of SST and ADIPOQ on BTA1 in Angus; excluded SST as underlying the ribeye muscle area QTL; and excluded ADIPOQ as underlying the marbling score QTL. However, association analysis provides very limited information about QTL location and has little intrinsic value when performed in the absence of linkage or LD analysis using flanking marker data to  localize the QTL effect relative to positional candidate genes.

17151246	The effect of genetic variation of the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C gene on fatness in cattle. Genotypes at the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C (RORC) gene were associated with fatness in 1750 cattle. Ten SNPs were genotyped in RORC and  the adjacent gene leucine-rich repeat neuronal 6D (LRRN6D) to map the QTL, 7 of which are in a 4.2-kb sequence around the ligand-binding domain of the RORC gene. Of the 29 inferred haplotypes for these SNPs, 2 have a combined frequency of 54.6% while the top 5 haplotypes have a combined frequency of 85.3%. The average  D' value of linkage disequilibrium was 0.92 although the average r2 was a low 0.18. The RORC:g.3290T>G SNP had the strongest association with marbling. The inferred haplotypes were significantly associated with marbling and the difference between the most divergent haplotypes was 0.35 sigma(p) of marbling and 0.28 sigma(p) of rump fat, explaining the previously reported QTL effect. cDNA for RORC were sequenced and 2 new alternative transcripts were found. Fetal  tissue shows 40 times greater transcription of RORC than adult tissue. The highest expression in fetal tissue was found in liver and kidney, but in adults the longissimus muscle had the greatest expression of the tissues tested.

17179535	Joint analysis of the influence of CYP11B1 and DGAT1 genetic variation on milk production, somatic cell score, conformation, reproduction, and productive lifespan in German Holstein cattle. Recent publications indicate genetic variation in milk production traits on proximal BTA14, which cannot be explained solely with genetic variation in the DGAT1 gene. To elucidate these QTL effects, animals from a German Holstein granddaughter design (18 families, 1,291 sons) were genotyped for CYP11B1 (V30A)  and DGAT1 (K232A) polymorphisms. Frequencies of alleles of maternal descent were  estimated for CYP11B1(V) (0.776) and DGAT1(K) (0.549). Allele substitution effects (alpha/2) were first calculated for both alleles in separate models and then in a joint model. From the joint analysis, CYP11B1(V) effects on fat content (+0.04%) and protein content (+0.01%) were positive. Effects on milk yield (-82 kg), fat yield (-0.5 kg), and protein yield (-1.9 kg) were negative. Compared with the individual analysis, DGAT1(K) effects on fat content (+0.28%), protein content (+0.06%), and milk yield (-258 kg) were reduced; fat yield (+10.8 kg) was enhanced; and protein yield (-3.8 kg) was reduced. In the joint analysis, allele  substitution effects of CYP11B1(V) and DGAT1(K) together explained more of the variation in milk production traits than DGAT1(K) alone. Further significant effects were found for CYP11B1(V) and DGAT1(K) among 6 reproduction traits and 14 conformational traits. These observations indicate a possible negative influence  of DGAT1(K) on maternal nonreturn rate, and thus, on length of productive life.

17183116	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting lameness and leg conformation traits in Danish Holstein cattle. Lameness is an important factor for culling animals. Strong legs and feet improve herd life of dairy cows. Therefore, many countries include leg and feet conformation traits in their breeding programs, often as early predictors of longevity. However, few countries directly measure lameness related traits to include these in a breeding program. Lameness indices in 3 different lactations and 5 leg conformation traits (rear legs side view, rear legs rear view, hock quality, bone quality, and foot angle) were measured on granddaughters of 19 Danish Holstein grandsires with 33 to 105 sons. A genome scan was performed to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) based on the 29 autosomes using microsatellite markers. Data were analyzed across and within families for QTL affecting lameness and leg conformation traits. A regression method and a variance component method were used for QTL detection. Two QTL each for lameness  in the first [Bos taurus autosome (BTA); BTA5, BTA26] and second (BTA19, BTA22) lactations were detected. For the 5 different leg conformation traits, 7 chromosome-wise significant QTL were detected across families for rear legs side  view, 5 for rear legs rear view, 4 for hock quality, 4 for bone quality, and 1 for foot angle. For those chromosomes where a QTL associated with 2 different traits was detected (BTA1, BTA11, BTA15, BTA26, and BTA27), a multitrait-1-QTL model and a multitrait-2-QTL model were performed to characterize these QTL as single QTL with pleiotropic effects or distinct QTL.

17242864	Fatty acid synthase effects on bovine adipose fat and milk fat. A quantitative trait locus (QTL) was identified by linkage analysis on bovine Chromosome 19 that affects the fatty acid, myristic acid (C14:0), in subcutaneous adipose tissue of pasture-fed beef cattle (99% level: experiment-wise significance). The QTL was also shown to have significant effects on ten fatty acids in the milk fat of pasture-fed dairy cattle. A positional candidate gene for this QTL was identified as fatty acid synthase (FASN), which is a multifunctional enzyme with a central role in the metabolism of lipids. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified in the bovine FASN gene, and animals were genotyped for FASN SNPs in three different cattle resource populations. Linkage and association mapping results using these SNPs were consistent with FASN being the gene underlying the QTL. SNP substitution effects  for C14:0 percentage were found to have an effect in the opposite direction in adipose fat to that in milk fat. It is concluded that SNPs in the bovine FASN gene are associated with variation in the fatty acid composition of adipose fat and milk fat.

17257192	Refinement of two female fertility QTL using alternative phenotypes in French Holstein dairy cattle. Two quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting female fertility were mapped in French dairy cattle. Phenotypes were non-return rates at 28, 56, 90 and 282 days  after insemination. On chromosome 3, a QTL was significant at 1% for non-return rate at 90 days, suggesting that it affects early fertility events. An analysis of SLC35A3, which causes complex vertebral malformation, excluded this gene from  the QTL interval. On chromosome 7, a QTL was almost significant (P = 0.05) for non-return rate at 282 days. This QTL was associated with abortion and stillbirth problems. Use of appropriate phenotypes appeared important for fine-mapping QTL associated with fertility.

17347893	Identification of bovine QTL for growth and carcass traits in Japanese Black cattle by replication and identical-by-descent mapping. To map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for growth and carcass traits in a purebred  Japanese Black cattle population, we conducted multiple QTL analyses using 15 paternal half-sib families comprising 7860 offspring. We identified 40 QTL with significant linkages at false discovery rates of less than 0.1, which included 12 for intramuscular fat deposition called marbling and 12 for cold carcass weight or body weight. The QTL each explained 2%-13% of the phenotypic variance. These QTL included many replications and shared hypothetical identical-by-descent (IBD) alleles. The QTL for CW on BTA14 was replicated in five families with significant linkages and in two families with a 1% chromosome-wise significance level. The seven sires shared a 1.1-Mb superior Q haplotype as a hypothetical IBD allele that corresponds to the critical region previously refined by linkage disequilibrium mapping. The QTL for marbling on BTA4 was replicated in two families with significant linkages. The QTL for marbling on BTA6, 7, 9, 10, 20, and 21 and the QTL for body weight on BTA6 were replicated with 1% and/or 5% chromosome-wise significance levels. There were shared IBD Q or q haplotypes in the marbling QTL on BTA4, 6, and 10. The allele substitution effect of these haplotypes ranged from 0.7 to 1.2, and an additive effect between the marbling QTL on BTA6 and 10 was observed in the family examined. The abundant and replicated QTL information will enhance the opportunities for positional cloning  of causative genes for the quantitative traits and efficient breeding using marker-assisted selection.

17433017	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the bovine CCL2, IL8, CCR2 and IL8RA genes and their association with health and production in Canadian Holsteins. The aim of this study was to identify the presence of SNPs in the chemokine genes CCL2 and IL8 and the chemokine receptor genes IL8RA and CCR2, and assess their potential contribution to variation in estimated breeding values (EBVs) for somatic cell score (SCS) and four other traits in Canadian Holstein bulls. Pools  of DNA for bulls with high (H) and low (L) EBVs for SCS were used for identification of 11 SNPs. Two unreported SNPs were found in the CCL2 gene and one SNP was found in the CCR2 gene. Previously reported SNPs (three in the IL8 gene and five in the IL8RA chemokine receptor) were also identified. Two SNPs in  CCL2, three in IL8, one in IL8RA and one in CCR2 were genotyped in Canadian Holstein bulls (n = 338) using tetra primer ARMS-PCR. We investigated associations of these seven polymorphisms with three production traits (milk yield, fat yield and protein yield) and one conformation trait related to mastitis (udder depth). The allele substitution effect for the CCL2 rs41255713:T>C SNP was significant at an experimental-wise level for milk yield (247.5 +/- 79.9 kg) and protein yield (7.4 +/- 2.3 kg) EBVs (P <or= 0.05). The associations of the SNPs with SCS EBVs were not significant at an experimental-wise level. However, the allele substitution effect of the CCR2 rs41257559:C>T SNP on SCS was significant at the comparison-wise level (-0.04 +/- 0.02, P = 0.05), which might indicate a possible association in support of other  published studies. Lastly, we assigned CCR2 to BTA22q24, where a previously QTL for SCS was identified.

17453646	Mapping of a quantitative trait locus for beef marbling on bovine chromosome 9 in purebred Japanese black cattle. The goal of this study is to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for carcass traits applicable for a DNA-based breeding system in a Japanese Black cattle population. A purebred paternal half-sib family from a commercial line composed of 65 steers was initially analyzed using 188 informative microsatellites giving  a 16-cM average interval covering 29 autosomes. A significant QTL for marbling was detected in the centromeric portion of bovine chromosome (BTA) 9. After additional marker genotyping across a larger sample size composed of 169 individuals, this locus was refined to a 20-cM confidence interval between microsatellites BM1227 (24 cM) and DIK2741 (50 cM) at a 1% chromosome-wise threshold. The allele substitution effect between Q and q for a beef marbling standard score (1 to 12 range) on BTA9 was 1.0 (5.7% of total phenotypic variance in QTL contribution in this family). This result provides a primary platform for  a marker-assisted selection system of the beef marbling trait within the Japanese Black (Wagyu) cattle population.

17517737	The association of bovine PPARGC1A and OPN genes with milk composition in two independent Holstein cattle populations. Many studies have reported quantitative trait loci on chromosome 6 that affect milk production traits in dairy cattle. Osteopontin (OPN) and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha (PPARGC1A) are located  in the middle of chromosome 6 about 6 Mb apart, which is approximately 12 cM. The objective of this study was to investigate the association of OPN and PPARGC1A variants with milk production traits in 2 independent Holstein cattle populations: the University of Wisconsin (UW) daughter design and the Cooperative Dairy DNA Repository (CDDR) granddaughter design resource populations. For OPN, 891 cows from the UW resource population were genotyped for the C/T polymorphism  reported previously in the CDDR population. Additive effects were significant for fat percentage, protein percentage, and fat yield in the UW resource population.  These results are consistent with previous studies that have shown significant association of OPN variants with milk composition traits. The association between PPARC1A variants was investigated in UW and CDDR resource populations using 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms. For the UW resource population, additive effects were significantly increased for protein percentage and decreased for milk yield. Dominance effects were not significant for any of the examined traits. For the CDDR population, PPARGC1A was associated with a significant increase in milk protein percentage and in SCS. Thus, in UW and CDDR populations, PPARGC1A was associated with a significant increase in milk protein percentage in contrast to  association results previously reported for the German Holstein population.

17582132	A genome scan for quantitative trait locus by environment interactions for production traits. Genotype by environment interactions between milk production traits and production level have often been observed. To increase the power of quantitative  trait loci (QTL) detection, QTL by environment interaction was included in QTL analyses for the milk, protein, and fat yields. The aim of the study was to detect QTL with interaction effects with the production environment. The QTL effects were modeled through random regression models for within-herd production  level. All autosomes except Bos taurus autosome 6 were included in the analysis.  A more detailed study of chromosome 6 is planned. For milk yield, 5 QTL were observed, 2 of which had interaction effects with production level (suggestive linkage). For protein yield, 5 QTL were observed, 3 of which had interaction effects (suggestive linkage). For fat yield, 3 QTL were observed, none of which had interaction effects with the environment (suggestive linkage). Thus, some QTL with interaction effects seemingly exist for milk yield and protein yield. For such QTL, estimated correlations between slope and intercept of the effect (close to 1 or -1) indicated that only 2 alleles were segregating. The study indicates that QTL by environment interactions exist, and that random regression models that describe the environment as herd production level can detect this interaction.

17596127	Quantitative trait loci with additive effects on growth and carcass traits in a Wagyu-Limousin F2 population. A whole-genome scan for carcass traits [average daily gain during the pre-weaning, growth and finishing periods; birth weight; hot carcass weight and longissimus muscle area (LMA)] was performed on 328 F(2) progeny produced from Wagyu x Limousin-cross parents derived from eight founder Wagyu bulls. Nine significant (P </= 0.05) and four suggestive (P </= 0.1) QTL affecting seven growth and carcass traits were identified. Significant QTL were located on bovine chromosomes 2, 4, 7, 9, 12, 16, 17 and 29. A QTL previously reported on chromosome 2 for LMA was also detected in this study. These results provide insight into genetic differences between the Wagyu and Limousin breeds.

17603104	Epistasis between calpain 1 and its inhibitor calpastatin within breeds of cattle. The calpain gene family and its inhibitors have diverse effects, many related to  protein turnover, which appear to affect a range of phenotypes such as diabetes,  exercise-induced muscle injury, and pathological events associated with degenerative neural diseases in humans, fertility, longevity, and postmortem effects on meat tenderness in livestock species. The calpains are inhibited by calpastatin, which binds directly to calpain. Here we report the direct measurement of epistatic interactions of causative mutations for quantitative trait loci (QTL) at calpain 1 (CAPN1), located on chromosome 29, with causative mutations for QTL variation at calpastatin (CAST), located on chromosome 7, in cattle. First we identified potential causative mutations at CAST and then genotyped these along with putative causative mutations at CAPN1 in >1500 cattle  of seven breeds. The maximum allele substitution effect on the phenotype of the CAPN1:c.947G>C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was 0.14 sigma(p) (P = 0.0003) and of the CAST:c.155C>T SNP was also 0.14 sigma(p) (P = 0.0011) when measured across breeds. We found significant epistasis between SNPs at CAPN1 and  CAST in both taurine and zebu derived breeds. There were more additive x dominance components of epistasis than additive x additive and dominance x dominance components combined. A minority of breed comparisons did not show epistasis, suggesting that genetic variation at other genes may influence the degree of epistasis found in this system.

17617211	Identification of a QTL on BTA20 affecting susceptibility to Mycobacterium avium  ssp. paratuberculosis infection in US Holsteins. The objective of this study was to identify QTL affecting susceptibility to Mycobacterium paratuberculosis infection in US Holsteins. Twelve paternal half-sib families were selected for the study based on large numbers of daughters in production and limited relationships among sires. Serum and faecal samples from 4350 daughters of these 12 sires were obtained for disease testing. Case definition for an infected cow was an ELISA sample-to-positive ratio >/=0.25, a positive faecal culture or both. Three families were selected for genotyping based on a high apparent prevalence (6.8-10.4% infected cows), high faecal culture prevalence (46.2-52.9% positive faecal cultures) and large numbers of daughters tested for disease (264-585). DNA pooling was used to genotype cows, with an average of 159 microsatellites within each sire family. Infected cows (the positive pool) were matched with two of their non-infected herdmates in the  same lactation (the negative pool) to control for herd and age effects. Eight chromosomal regions putatively linked with susceptibility to M. paratuberculosis  infection were identified using a Z-test (P < 0.01). Significant results were more rigorously tested by individually genotyping cows with three to five informative microsatellites within 15 cM of the significant markers identified with the DNA pools. Probability of infection based on both diagnostic tests was estimated for each individual and used as the dependent variable for interval mapping. Based on this analysis, evidence for the presence of a QTL segregating within families on BTA20 was found (chromosome-wide P-value = 0.0319).

17617213	Effect of myostatin F94L on carcass yield in cattle. In this study, a highly significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) for meat percentage, eye muscle area (EMA) and silverside percentage was found on cattle chromosome 2 at 0-15 cM, a region containing the positional candidate gene growth differentiation factor 8 (GDF8), which has the common alias myostatin (MSTN). Loss-of-function mutations in the MSTN gene are known to cause an extreme 'double muscling' phenotype in cattle. In this study, highly significant associations of  MSTN with cattle carcass traits were found using maternally inherited MSTN haplotypes from outbred Limousin and Jersey cattle in a linkage disequilibrium analysis. A previously reported transversion in MSTN (AF320998.1:g.433C>A), resulting in the amino acid substitution of phenylalanine by leucine at position  94 of the protein sequence (F94L), was the only polymorphism consistently related to increased muscling. Overall, the size of the g.433C>A additive effect on carcass traits was moderately large, with the g.433A allele found to be associated with a 5.5% increase in silverside percentage and EMA and a 2.3% increase in total meat percentage relative to the g.433C allele. The phenotypic effects of the g.433A allele were partially recessive. This study provides strong evidence that a MSTN genotype can produce an intermediate, non-double muscling phenotype, which should be of significant value for beef cattle producers.

17705851	Genetic effects on coat colour in cattle: dilution of eumelanin and phaeomelanin  pigments in an F2-Backcross Charolais x Holstein population. BACKGROUND: In cattle, the gene coding for the melanocortin receptor 1 (MC1R) is  known to be the main regulator of the switch between the two coat colour pigments: eumelanin (black pigment) and phaeomelanin (red pigment). Some breeds,  such as Charolais and Simmental, exhibit a lightening of the original pigment over the whole body. The dilution mutation in Charolais (Dc) is responsible for the white coat colour of this breed. Using an F2-Backcross Charolais x Holstein population which includes animals with both pigment backgrounds, we present a linkage mapping study of the Charolais dilution locus. RESULTS: A Charolais x Holstein crossbred population was investigated for genetic effects on coat colour dilution. Three different traits representing the dilution of the phaeomelanin, eumelanin, and non-pigment-specific dilution were defined. Highly significant genome-wide associations were detected on chromosome 5 for the three traits analysed in the marker interval [ETH10-DIK5248]. The SILV gene was examined as the strongest positional and functional candidate gene. A previously  reported non-synonymous mutation in exon 1 of this gene, SILV c.64A>G, was associated with the coat colour dilution phenotype in this resource population. Although some discrepancies were identified between this mutation and the dilution phenotype, no convincing recombination events were found between the SILV c.64A>G mutation and the Dc locus. Further analysis identified a region on chromosome 28 influencing the variation in pigment intensity for a given coat colour category. CONCLUSION: The present study has identified a region on bovine chromosome 5 that harbours the major locus responsible for the dilution of the eumelanin and phaeomelanin seen in Charolais crossbred cattle. In this study, no convincing evidence was found to exclude SILV c.64A>G as the causative mutation for the Charolais dilution phenotype, although other genetic effects may influence the coat colour variation in the population studied. A region on chromosome 28 influences the intensity of pigment within coat colour categories, and therefore  may include a modifier of the Dc locus. A candidate gene for this effect, LYST, was identified.

17709790	Primary genome scan to identify putative quantitative trait loci for feedlot growth rate, feed intake, and feed efficiency of beef cattle. Feed intake and feed efficiency of beef cattle are economically relevant traits.  The study was conducted to identify QTL for feed intake and feed efficiency of beef cattle by using genotype information from 100 microsatellite markers and 355 SNP genotyped across 400 progeny of 20 Angus, Charolais, or Alberta Hybrid bulls. Traits analyzed include feedlot ADG, daily DMI, feed-to-gain ratio [F:G, which is the reciprocal of the efficiency of gain (G:F)], and residual feed intake (RFI).  A mixed model with sire as random and QTL effects as fixed was used to generate an F-statistic profile across and within families for each trait along each chromosome, followed by empirical permutation tests to determine significance thresholds for QTL detection. Putative QTL for ADG (chromosome-wise P < 0.05) were detected across families on chromosomes 5 (130 cM), 6 (42 cM), 7 (84 cM), 11 (20 cM), 14 (74 cM), 16 (22 cM), 17 (9 cM), 18 (46 cM), 19 (53 cM), and 28 (23 cM). For DMI, putative QTL that exceeded the chromosome-wise P < 0.05 threshold were detected on chromosomes 1 (93 cM), 3 (123 cM), 15 (31 cM), 17 (81 cM), 18 (49 cM), 20 (56 cM), and 26 (69 cM) in the across-family analyses. Putative across-family QTL influencing F:G that exceeded the chromosome-wise P < 0.05 threshold were detected on chromosomes 3 (62 cM), 5 (129 cM), 7 (27 cM), 11 (16 cM), 16 (30 cM), 17 (81 cM), 22 (72 cM), 24 (55 cM), and 28 (24 cM). Putative QTL influencing RFI that exceeded the chromosome-wise P < 0.05 threshold were detected on chromosomes 1 (90 cM), 5 (129 cM), 7 (22 cM), 8 (80 cM), 12 (89 cM),  16 (41 cM), 17 (19 cM), and 26 (48 cM) in the across-family analyses. In addition, a total of 4, 6, 1, and 8 chromosomes showed suggestive evidence (chromosome-wise, P < 0.10) for putative ADG, DMI, F:G, and RFI QTL, respectively. Most of the QTL detected across families were also detected within  families, although the locations across families were not necessarily the locations within families, which is likely because of differences among families  in marker informativeness for the different linkage groups. The locations and direction of some of the QTL effects reported in this study suggest potentially favorable pleiotropic effects for the underlying genes. Further studies will be required to confirm these QTL in other populations so that they can be fine-mapped for potential applications in marker-assisted selection and management of beef cattle.

17785604	Polymorphisms and haplotypes in the bovine neuropeptide Y, growth hormone receptor, ghrelin, insulin-like growth factor 2, and uncoupling proteins 2 and 3  genes and their associations with measures of growth, performance, feed efficiency, and carcass merit in beef cattle. Genes that regulate metabolism and energy partitioning have the potential to influence economically important traits in farm animals, as do polymorphisms within these genes. In the current study, SNP in the bovine neuropeptide Y (NPY), growth hormone receptor (GHR), ghrelin (GHRL), uncoupling proteins 2 and 3 (UCP2  and UCP3), IGF2, corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), cocaine and amphetamine  regulated transcript (CART), melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R), proopiomelanocortin  (POMC), and GH genes were evaluated for associations with growth, feed efficiency, and carcass merit in beef steers. In total, 24 SNP were evaluated for associations with these traits and haplotypes were constructed within each gene when 2 or more SNP showed significant associations. An A/G SNP located in intron  4 of the GHR gene had the largest effects on BW of the animals (dominance effect  P < 0.01) and feed efficiency (allele substitution effect P < 0.05). Another A/G  SNP located in the promoter region of GHR had similar effects but the haplotypes  of these 2 SNP reduced the effects of the SNP located in intron 4. Three SNP in the NPY gene showed associations to marbling (P < 0.001) as well as with ADG, BW, and feed conversion ratio (FCR; P < 0.05). The combination of these 3 SNP into haplotypes generally improved the association or had a similar scale of association as each single SNP. Only 1 SNP in UCP3, an A/G SNP in intron 3, was associated with ADG (P = 0.025), partial efficiency of growth, and FCR (P < 0.01). Three SNP in UCP2 gene were in almost complete linkage disequilibrium and  showed associations with lean meat yield, yield grade, DMI, and BW (P < 0.05). Haplo-types between the SNP in UCP3 and UCP2 generally reduced the associations seen individually in each SNP. An A/G SNP in the GHRL gene tended to show effects on residual feed intake, FCR, and partial efficiency of growth (P < 0.10). The IGF2 SNP most strongly affected LM area (P < 0.01), back fat, ADG, and FCR (P < 0.05). The SNP in the CART, MC4R, POMC, GH, and CRH genes did not show associations at P < 0.05 with any of the traits. Although most of the SNP that showed associations do not cause amino acid changes, these SNP could be linked to other yet to be detected causative mutations or nearby QTL. It will be very important to verify these results in other cattle populations.

17868077	Fine mapping of a quantitative trait locus on chromosome 9 affecting non-return rate in Swedish dairy cattle. We previously mapped a quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting the trait non-return rate at 56 days in heifers to bovine chromosome 9. The purpose of this study was to confirm and refine the position of the QTL by using a denser marker  map and fine mapping methods. Five families that previously showed segregation for the QTL were included in the study. The mapping population consisted of 139 bulls in a granddaughter design. All bulls were genotyped for 25 microsatellite markers surrounding the QTL on chromosome 9. We also analysed the correlated trait number of inseminations per service period in heifers. Both traits describe the heifer's ability to become pregnant after insemination. Linkage analysis, linkage disequilibrium and combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis were used to analyse the data. Analysis of the families jointly by linkage analysis resulted in a significant but broad QTL peak for non-return rate. Results from the combined analysis gave a sharp QTL peak with a well-defined maximum in between markers BMS1724 and BM7209, at the same position as where the  highest peak from the linkage disequilibrium analysis was found. One of the sire  families segregated clearly at this position and the difference in effects between the two sire haplotypes was 2.9 percentage units in non-return rate. No significant results were found for the number of inseminations in the combined analysis.

17894560	Mapping of quantitative trait loci controlling tick [Riphicephalus (Boophilus) microplus] resistance on bovine chromosomes 5, 7 and 14. Differences in domestication and selection processes have contributed to considerable phenotypic and genotypic differences between Bos taurus and Bos indicus cattle breeds. Of particular interest in tropical and subtropical production environments are those genetic differences between subspecies that underlie the phenotypic extremes in tolerance and susceptibility to parasite infection. In general, B. taurus cattle are more susceptible to ectoparasites than B. indicus cattle in tropical environments, and much of this difference is under genetic control. To identify genomic regions involved in tick resistance, we developed a B. taurus x B. indicus F(2) experimental population to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance to the Riphicephalus (Boophilus) microplus tick. About 300 individuals were measured for parasite load in two seasons (rainy and dry) and genotyped for 23 microsatellite markers covering chromosomes 5, 7 and 14. We mapped a suggestive chromosome-wide QTL for tick load in the rainy season (P < 0.05) on chromosome 5. For the dry season, suggestive (P < 0.10) chromosome-wide QTL were mapped on chromosomes 7 and 14. The additive effect of the QTL on chromosome 14 corresponds to 3.18% of the total observed phenotypic variance. Our QTL-mapping study has identified different genomic regions controlling tick resistance; these QTL were dependent upon the season in  which the ticks were counted, suggesting that the QTL in question may depend on environmental factors.

17894565	Quantitative trait loci with additive effects on palatability and fatty acid composition of meat in a Wagyu-Limousin F2 population. A whole-genome scan was conducted on 328 F(2) progeny in a Wagyu x Limousin cross to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting palatability and fatty acid composition of beef at an age-constant endpoint. We have identified seven QTL on  five chromosomes involved in lipid metabolism and tenderness. None of the genes encoding major enzymes involved in fatty acid metabolism, such as fatty acid synthase (FASN), acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA), solute carrier family 2 (facilitated glucose transporter) member 4 (SLC2A4), stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) and genes encoding the subunits of fatty acid elongase, was located in these QTL regions. The present study may lead to a better-tasting and healthier product for consumers through improved selection for palatability and lipid content of beef.

17954769	Joint analysis of quantitative trait loci for clinical mastitis and somatic cell  score on five chromosomes in three Nordic dairy cattle breeds. Five chromosomes were selected for joint quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses for clinical mastitis (CM) and somatic cell score (SCS) in 3 breeds: Finnish Ayrshire (FA), Swedish Red and White (SRB), and Danish Red (DR). In total, 19 grandsires and 672 sons in FA, 19 grandsires and 499 sons in SRB, and 8 grandsires and 258 sons in DR were used in the study. These individuals were genotyped with the 61 microsatellite markers used in any of the previous QTL scans on the selected chromosomes. Within-family QTL analyses based on linear regression models were carried out for CM and SCS to identify the segregating sires for each region. On the segregating families, joint single-trait and 2-trait analyses were performed using variance components models. The analyses confirmed that QTL affecting CM or SCS, or both, segregate on Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) 9, 11, 14, and 18, whereas a QTL on BTA29 could not be confirmed. Our results indicate that there may be at least 2 linked QTL on BTA9, one that primarily affects CM and a second that primarily affects SCS. On chromosomes BTA11, 14, and 18, the joint analyses were only significant for SCS.

18005441	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in bovine CARD15 and their associations with health and production traits in Canadian Holsteins. BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) and Caspase Recruitment Domain 15 (CARD15) are important pattern recognition receptors that play a role in the initiation of the inflammatory and subsequent immune response. They have been previously identified as susceptibility loci for inflammatory bowel diseases in humans and are, therefore, suitable candidate genes for inflammatory disease resistance in cattle. The objective of this study was to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bovine TLR2 and CARD15 and evaluate the association of these SNPs with health and production traits in a population of Canadian Holstein bulls. RESULTS: A selective DNA pool was constructed based on the estimated breeding values (EBVs) for SCS. Gene segments were amplified from this pool in PCR reactions and the amplicons sequenced to reveal polymorphisms. A total of four SNPs, including one in intron 10 (c.2886-14A>G) and three in the exon 12 (c.3020A>T, c.4500A>C and c.4950C>T) were identified in CARD15; none were identified in TLR2. Canadian Holstein bulls (n = 338) were genotyped and haplotypes were reconstructed. Two SNPs, c.3020A>T and c.4500A>C, were associated with EBVs for health and production traits. The SNP, c.3020A>T, for example, was  associated with SCS EBVs (p = 0.0097) with an allele substitution effect of 0.07  score. When compared to the most frequent haplotype Hap12(AC), Hap22(TC) was associated with increased milk (p < 0.0001) and protein (p = 0.0007) yield EBVs,  and hap21(TA) was significantly associated with increased SCS EBV(p = 0.0120). All significant comparison-wise associations retained significance at 8% experimental-wise level by permutation test. CONCLUSION: This study indicates that SNP c.3020A>T might play a role in the host response against mastitis and further detailed studies are needed to understand its functional mechanisms.

18059556	Corticotropin releasing hormone is a promising candidate gene for marbling and subcutaneous fat depth in beef cattle. The gene corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) is mapped on bovine chromosome 14  (BTA14), where more than 30 fat-related quantitative trait loci (QTLs) have been  reported in dairy and beef cattle. The gene product regulates secretion of adrenocorticotrophin hormone, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and multiple hypothalamic functions; therefore, we hypothesized that CRH is a promising candidate gene for beef marbling score (BMS) and subcutaneous fat depth (SFD) in a Wagyu x Limousin F2 population. Two pairs of primers were designed and a total of 5 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified: g.9657C>T, c.10718G>C, c.10841G>A, c.10893A>C, and c.10936G>C (AAFC03076794.1). Among the 4  cSNPs, c.10718G>C, c.10841G>A, and c.10936G>C are missense mutations leading to amino acid changes from arginine to proline, from serine to asparagine, and from  aspartic acid to histidine, respectively. These 5 SNPs were genotyped on ~250 F2  progeny, but only 4 were selected as tagging SNPs for association analysis because no historical recombination was observed between c.10718G>C and c.10893A>C. Statistical analysis showed that g.9657C>T, c.10718G>C, and c.10936G>C and their haplotypes had significant effects on SFD, but only c.10936G>C was significantly associated with BMS. The SNP in the promoter (g.9657C>T) led to gain/loss of a CpG site and 4 potential regulatory binding sites. Different haplotypes among the 4 cSNPs significantly affected mRNA secondary structures but were not associated with phenotypes. Overall, our results provide further evidence that CRH is a promising candidate gene for a concordant QTL related to lipid metabolism in mammals.

18162103	QTL for meat tenderness in the M. longissimus lumborum of cattle. Meat tenderness has been difficult to improve using standard genetic selection. Marker assisted selection holds great promise if markers for meat tenderness can  be identified. Here, we report quantitative trait loci (QTL) for beef tenderness  identified in 598 animals of three Charolais-Brahman x Belmont Red pedigrees after screening the whole genome using 183 DNA markers. In addition to the usual  Warner-Bratzler peak force measurements, tenderness was also measured using compression, adhesion and pressure-heat-treated peak force. Three QTL for meat tenderness in the M. longissimus lumborum muscle were found, two of which have not been reported before. One is located in the HEL9-CSSM47 interval on bovine chromosome 8 with a LOD of 3.1 and an effect of 1.02 phenotypic standard deviations for tensile strength of cooked muscle as measured by adhesion. A second QTL is located near CSRM60 on bovine chromosome 10 with a LOD of 2.4 and an effect of 0.48 phenotypic standard deviations for compression. The third QTL is in a region of bovine chromosome 7 that has previously been reported to have a QTL affecting peak force. This region also shows effects on compression and a combined tenderness index. These QTL are all for the myofibrillar component of meat tenderness. No QTL were found for pressure-treated peak force, which is an estimate of the connective tissue component muscle of meat tenderness.

18162104	Fine-mapping of a marbling trait to a 2.9-cM region on bovine chromosome 7 in Japanese Black cattle. To locate quantitative trait loci (QTL) for intramuscular fat deposition (marbling) in a local population of Japanese Black cattle, we performed a genome  scan using a paternal half-sib family of Bull A. A marbling QTL was mapped in the region flanked by DIK0079 (20.7 cM) and TGLA303 (39.3 cM) on bovine chromosome (BTA) 7, affecting 5.0% of the total family variance. Haplotype analysis of the QTL region revealed that the marbling-increasing Q allele was transmitted from the dam. On the other hand, Bull B, a maternal half-sib of Bull A, did not receive the Q allele from its dam, based on the following findings: (i) a marbling QTL on BTA7 was not detected in the Bull B paternal half-sib family; (ii) recombination between DIK0079 (20.7 cM) and RM006 (25.4 cM) in the QTL region was observed in the maternal chromosome of Bull B; and (iii) the Q-harbouring steers from Bull A exhibited significantly higher marbling than the  steers from Bull B and the remaining steers from Bull A. To precisely compare the maternal chromosomes of both bulls, we constructed a bacterial artificial chromosome contig covering the region between DIK0079 and RM006 and developed DNA markers. The recombination occurred between DIK8042 and DIK8044, indicating that  the marbling QTL was in a 2.9-cM region flanked by DIK0079 and DIK8044.

18198295	Functional UQCRC1 polymorphisms affect promoter activity and body lipid accumulation. Obesity and type 2 diabetes constitute leading public health problems worldwide.  Studies have shown that insulin resistance affiliated with these conditions is associated with skeletal muscle lipid accumulation, while the latter is associated with mitochondrial dysfunctions. However, the initiation and regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis rely heavily on approximately 1000 nuclear-encoded mitochondrial regulatory proteins. In this study, we targeted the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase core protein I gene, a nuclear-encoded component of mitochondrial complex III, for its association with subcutaneous fat depth (SFD) and skeletal muscle lipid accumulation (SMLA) using cattle as a model. Four promoter polymorphisms were identified and genotyped on approximately 250 Wagyu x Limousin F2 progeny. Statistical analysis revealed that two completely linked polymorphic sites, g.13487C>T and g.13709G>C (r2 = 1), were significantly associated with both SFD (p < 0.01) and SMLA (p < 0.0001). The difference between TTCC and CCGG haplotypes was 0.178 cm for SFD and 0.624 scores for SMLA. Interestingly, the former haplotype produced higher promoter activities than the  latter by 43% to 49% in three cell lines (p < 0.05). In addition to Rett syndrome and breast/ovarian cancer observed in other studies, we report evidence for the first time, to our knowledge, that overexpression of ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase core protein I might affect mitochondrial morphology and/or physiology  and lead to development of obesity and related conditions.

18218765	Quantitative trait loci affecting milk yield and protein percentage in a three-country Brown Swiss population. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping projects have been implemented mainly in the Holstein dairy cattle breed for several traits. The aim of this study is to map QTL for milk yield (MY) and milk protein percent (PP) in the Brown Swiss cattle populations of Austria, Germany, and Italy, considered in this study as a  single population. A selective DNA pooling approach using milk samples was applied to map QTL in 10 paternal half-sib daughter families with offspring spanning from 1,000 to 3,600 individuals per family. Three families were sampled  in Germany, 3 in Italy, 1 in Austria and 3 jointly in Austria and Italy. The pools comprised the 200 highest and 200 lowest performing daughters, ranked by dam-corrected estimated breeding value for each sire-trait combination. For each  tail, 2 independent pools, each of 100 randomly chosen daughters, were constructed. Sire marker allele frequencies were obtained by densitometry and shadow correction analyses of 172 genome-wide allocated autosomal markers. Particular emphasis was placed on Bos taurus chromosomes 3, 6, 14, and 20. Marker association for MY and PP with a 10% false discovery rate resulted in nominal P-values of 0.071 and 0.073 for MY and PP, respectively. Sire marker association  tested at a 20% false discovery rate (within significant markers) yielded nominal P-values of 0.031 and 0.036 for MY and PP, respectively. There were a total of 36 significant markers for MY, 33 for PP, and 24 for both traits; 75 markers were not significant for any of the traits. Of the 43 QTL regions found in the present study, 10 affected PP only, 8 affected MY only, and 25 affected MY and PP. Remarkably, all 8 QTL regions that affected only MY in the Brown Swiss, also affected MY in research reported in 3 Web-based QTL maps used for comparison with the findings of this study (http://www.vetsci.usyd.edu.au/reprogen/QTL_Map/; http://www.animalgenome.org/QTLdb/cattle.html; http://bovineqtl.tamu.edu/). Similarly, all 10 QTL regions in the Brown Swiss that affected PP only, affected  only PP in the databases. Thus, many QTL appear to be common to Brown Swiss and other breeds in the databases (mainly Holstein), and an appreciable fraction of QTL appears to affect MY or PP primarily or exclusively, with little or no effect on the other trait. Although QTL information available today in the Brown Swiss population can be utilized only in a within family marker-assisted selection approach, knowledge of QTL segregating in the whole population should boost gene  identification and ultimately the implementation and efficiency of an individual  genomic program.

18218766	Mutations in the STAT5A gene are associated with embryonic survival and milk composition in cattle. The objective of this study was to investigate the association of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5A (STAT5A) gene with fertilization rate, embryonic survival, and milk production and composition in cattle. The STAT proteins are transcription factors that are specifically activated to regulate gene transcription when cells encounter cytokines and growth factors. The STAT5A  gene is a member of the interferon-tau (IFN-tau) and placental lactogen (PL) signaling pathway, which is involved in both milk production and initiation of pregnancy. Using the DNA-pooling sequencing approach, a total of 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were identified, 1 exonic and 11 intronic. For the study of association of these SNP with embryonic survival, 1,551 embryos were produced in vitro from 160 cows and 3 sires. Significant associations with embryonic survival were found for 7, 5, and 2 SNP for embryos produced from sires 1, 2, and 3 respectively. The association of fertilization rate with STAT5A polymorphisms was evaluated in more than 2,300 oocytes. Significant associations  were found for 6, 2, and 2 SNP for sires 1, 2, and 3 respectively. For sire 1, 5  SNP showed significant associations with both embryonic survival and fertilization rate compared with 1 SNP for sires 2 and 3. To determine if embryonic losses had occurred before the blastocyst stage, 145 of the surviving embryos were harvested at d 7 of development and genotyped for the single exonic  SNP12195. A significant segregation distortion was observed between oocytes produced from 2 sires carrying the same genotype. Thus, it is most likely that STAT5A is associated with 2 mechanisms of embryo death. One is a prefertilization mechanism involving sperm factors that cause low fertilization rate. The second is a postfertilization mechanism that causes incompatibility between the male pronucleus and the oocyte, which in turn leads to death of the embryo before the  blastocyst stage. Association testing of SNP12195 (exon 8) and SNP14217 (intron 9) with milk composition revealed that allele G of SNP12195 was associated with a decrease in both protein and fat percentages. However, SNP14217 in intron 9 showed no significant association with milk production or health traits. The G allele of SNP12195 was also associated with low embryonic survival, making this SNP an attractive candidate for progeny testing programs in dairy cattle.

18218768	Detection and analysis of quantitative trait loci affecting production and secondary traits on chromosome 7 in Israeli Holsteins. A total of 5,459 Israeli Holstein cows, daughters of 11 sires, were genotyped for 29 microsatellites spanning chromosome 7 and analyzed by the daughter design for  9 economic traits: milk, fat, and protein yield, fat and protein percentage, somatic cell score, female fertility, herd life, and milk persistency. Quantitative trait loci at chromosome-wise 0.05 significance were obtained for fat and protein yield, fat percentage, somatic cell score, and female fertility.  Peak F-values were obtained at 29 cM for fat and protein yield and fat percentage, at 60 cM for somatic cell score, at 74 cM for herd life, and at 11 cM for female fertility. The 0.95 confidence intervals for quantitative trait loci locations were 20 cM for kilograms of fat, 27 cM for fertility, and 51 cM for somatic cell score. Two loci affecting fertility at opposite ends of the chromosome are apparently segregating in the population. A quantitative trait locus for fertility near the centromere was confirmed by application of the modified granddaughter design to a single family. Estimated frequency of the economically favorable allele in the Israeli Holstein cattle was less than 0.5. Significant genetic gain for fertility seems possible by marker-assisted selection.

18245504	Effects of the myostatin F94L substitution on beef traits. This study investigated the effects of a SNP in the myostatin gene (MSTN or growth differentiation factor 8, GDF8) on birth, growth, carcass, and beef quality traits in Australia (Aust.) and New Zealand (NZ). The SNP is a cytosine to adenine transversion in exon 1, causing an amino acid substitution of leucine  for phenylalanine(94) (F94L). The experiment used crosses between the Jersey and  Limousin breeds, with the design being a backcross using first-cross bulls of Jersey x Limousin or Limousin x Jersey breeding, mated to Jersey and Limousin cows. Progeny were genotyped for the myostatin SNP and phenotyped in Aust., with  finishing on feedlot (366 calves, over 3 birth years) and in NZ with finishing on pasture (416 calves, over 2 birth years). The effect of the F94L allele (A allele) on birth and growth traits was not significant. The F94L allele in Limousin backcross calves was associated with an increase in meat weight (7.3 and 5.9% of the trait mean in Aust. and NZ, respectively, P < 0.001), and a reduction in fat depth (-13.9 and -18.7% of the trait means on live calves (600 d) and carcasses, respectively, Aust. only, P < 0.001), intramuscular fat content (-8.2% of the trait mean in Aust., P < 0.05; -7.1% in NZ, not significant), total carcass fat weight (-16.5 and -8.1% of the trait mean, Aust. and NZ; P < 0.001 and P < 0.05, respectively). Meat tenderness, pH, and cooking loss of the M. longissimus dorsi were not affected by the F94L variant. In the Jersey backcross  calves, additive and dominance effects were confounded because the F94L allele was not segregating in the Jersey dams. The combined effects, however, were significant on LM area (4.4% in both Aust., P < 0.05, and NZ, P < 0.01), channel  fat (-11.7%, NZ only, P < 0.01), rib fat depth (-11.2%, NZ only, P < 0.05), and carcass fat weight (-7.1%, NZ only, P < 0.05). The results provide strong evidence that this myostatin F94L variant provides an intermediate and more useful phenotype than the more severe double-muscling phenotype caused by knockout mutations in the myostatin gene.

18254735	Detection of quantitative trait loci for meat quality traits in cattle. A whole-genome scan was carried out to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting sensory, organoleptic, physical and chemical properties of meat. The study used phenotypic data from 235 second-generation cross-bred bull calves of a Charolais x Holstein experimental population. Loin muscle samples were evaluated  for yield force, intramuscular fat and nitrogen contents, myofibrillar fragmentation index, haem pigment concentration, moisture content and pH at 24 h  postmortem. A sensory assessment was performed on grilled loin and roasted silverside joints by trained panellists. A linear regression analysis based on 165 markers revealed 35 QTL at the 5% chromosome-wide significance level (20 for  sensory traits and 15 for physical and chemical traits), five of which were highly significant (F-value: > or =9). The most significant QTL was located on chromosome 6 (with the best likely position at 39 cM) and affected haem pigment concentration. The Holstein allele for this QTL was associated with an increase of 0.53 SD in the haem scores. A QTL for pH(24h) was identified on chromosome 14  (at 40 cM) and a QTL for moisture content was identified on chromosome 22 (at 21  cM). Two highly significant QTL were identified for sensory panel-assessed traits: beef odour intensity (grilled sample) on chromosome 10 (at 119 cM), and juiciness (roast sample) on chromosome 16 (at 70 cM). The proportion of phenotypic variance explained by the significant QTL ranged from 3.6% (for nitrogen content on chromosome 10) to 9.5% (for juiciness, roast sample on chromosome 16).

18298934	Detection and modelling of time-dependent QTL in animal populations. A longitudinal approach is proposed to map QTL affecting function-valued traits and to estimate their effect over time. The method is based on fitting mixed random regression models. The QTL allelic effects are modelled with random coefficient parametric curves and using a gametic relationship matrix. A simulation study was conducted in order to assess the ability of the approach to  fit different patterns of QTL over time. It was found that this longitudinal approach was able to adequately fit the simulated variance functions and considerably improved the power of detection of time-varying QTL effects compared to the traditional univariate model. This was confirmed by an analysis of protein yield data in dairy cattle, where the model was able to detect QTL with high effect either at the beginning or the end of the lactation, that were not detected with a simple 305 day model.

18298935	Quantitative trait loci for fertility traits in Finnish Ayrshire cattle. A whole genome scan was carried out to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for fertility traits in Finnish Ayrshire cattle. The mapping population consisted of  12 bulls and 493 sons. Estimated breeding values for days open, fertility treatments, maternal calf mortality and paternal non-return rate were used as phenotypic data. In a granddaughter design, 171 markers were typed on all 29 bovine autosomes. Associations between markers and traits were analysed by multiple marker regression. Multi-trait analyses were carried out with a variance component based approach for the chromosomes and trait combinations, which were observed significant in the regression method. Twenty-two chromosome-wise significant QTL were detected. Several of the detected QTL areas were overlapping with milk production QTL previously identified in the same population. Multi-trait QTL analyses were carried out to test if these effects were due to a  pleiotropic QTL affecting fertility and milk yield traits or to linked QTL causing the effects. This distinction could only be made with confidence on BTA1  where a QTL affecting milk yield is linked to a pleiotropic QTL affecting days open and fertility treatments.

18318789	Identification of polymorphisms influencing feed intake and efficiency in beef cattle. Feed efficiency is an economically important trait in beef cattle. Net feed efficiency, measured as residual feed intake (RFI), is the difference between actual feed intake and the predicted feed intake required for maintenance and gain of the animal. SNPs that show associations with RFI may be useful quantitative trait nucleotides for marker-assisted selection. This study identified associations between SNPs underlying five RFI QTL on five bovine chromosomes (BTA2, 5, 10, 20 and 29) with measures of dry matter intake (DMI), RFI and feed conversion ratio (FCR) in beef cattle. Six SNPs were found to have effects on RFI (P < 0.05). The largest single SNP allele substitution effect for  RFI was -0.25 kg/day located on BTA2. The combined effects of the SNPs found significant in this experiment explained 6.9% of the phenotypic variation of RFI. Not all the RFI SNPs showed associations with DMI and FCR even though these traits are highly correlated with RFI (r = 0.77 and r = 0.62 respectively). This  shows that these SNPs may be affecting the underlying biological mechanisms of feed efficiency beyond feed intake control and weight gain efficiency. These SNPs can be used in marker-assisted selection but first it will be important to verify these effects in independent populations of cattle.

18420641	Quantitative trait loci affecting calving traits in Danish Holstein cattle. The objectives of this study were 1) to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting direct and maternal calving traits at first calving in the Danish Holstein population, 2) to distinguish between pleiotropic and linked QTL for chromosome regions affecting more than one trait, and 3) to detect QTL affecting  stillbirth and calving difficulties but not calf size that could be used in selection to improve calving performance. Progeny-tested sons (2,297) were genotyped for 356 microsatellites in 34 grandsire families on all 29 autosomes. A total of 27 significant QTL on 17 chromosomes were detected using a between-families linear regression model. For the direct calving traits, 4 QTL significantly affected calving difficulty, 5 QTL affected stillbirth, and 7 QTL affected calf size subjectively assessed by the farmer as a categorical trait. When the maternal components of the same traits were tested, there were significant effects of 3 QTL on calving difficulty, 6 QTL on stillbirth, and 2 QTL on calf size. The variance component mapping approach was used to estimate the relative posterior probability of linkage and pleiotropic models. The most probable model indicated a pleiotropic QTL on chromosome 12 and 25 and a linked QTL on chromosome 7 and 26. Chromosome 18 seemed to harbor a QTL with a pleiotropic effect on the direct calving traits and linked to maternal stillbirth. Markers on chromosomes 3, 4, 7, 10, 12, 18, 21, 24, 26, and 28 can be used to select new breeding candidates to produce daughters with more efficient calving performance.

18420644	Frequency and effect of the bovine acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) K232A polymorphism in Swedish dairy cattle. Acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) is a key enzyme in triacylglycerol synthesis in the mammary gland, and the corresponding gene has emerged as a strong candidate for the variation in milk fat percentage. In this study, the allele frequencies and effects of the DGAT1 K232A variants in the Swedish dairy breeds Swedish Red and Swedish Holstein were investigated. A total  of 239 cows, 143 of the Swedish Red breed and 96 of the Swedish Holstein breed, in the experimental herd at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences were  genotyped for the DGAT1 polymorphism. The Swedish Red cows in the herd belonged to 1 of 2 selection lines with high or low milk fat percentage, respectively, but with similar high total milk energy production. The frequency of the K variant was found to be significantly greater in the high-fat line than in the low-fat line. The average frequency of the K variant in the 2 lines of the Swedish Red cows was 0.09 compared with 0.12 among the Swedish Holstein cows. Mixed model analysis was used to estimate the effect of the DGAT1 K232A polymorphism based on 16,866 test-day records for milk production traits. In accordance with previous studies, the most pronounced effects were found for fat and protein percentages and milk yield; and the K variant was associated with an increase in milk fat and protein percentages but less milk yield compared with the A variant. Less pronounced effects were found for yields of fat and protein for which the K variant was associated with greater fat yield but less protein yield.

18462482	Fine-mapping QTL for mastitis resistance on BTA9 in three Nordic red cattle breeds. A QTL affecting clinical mastitis and/or somatic cell score (SCS) has been reported previously on chromosome 9 from studies in 16 families from the Swedish  Red and White (SRB), Finnish Ayrshire (FA) and Danish Red (DR) breeds. In order to refine the QTL location, 67 markers were genotyped over the whole chromosome in the 16 original families and 18 additional half-sib families. This enabled linkage disequilibrium information to be used in the analysis. Data were analysed by an approach that combines information from linkage and linkage disequilibrium, which allowed the QTL affecting clinical mastitis to be mapped to a small interval (<1 cM) between the markers BM4208 and INRA084. This QTL showed a pleiotropic effect on SCS in the DR and SRB breeds. Haplotypes associated with variations in mastitis resistance were identified. The haplotypes were predictive in the general population and can be used in marker-assisted selection. Pleiotropic effects of the mastitis QTL were studied for three milk production traits and eight udder conformation traits. This QTL was also associated with yield traits in DR but not in FA or SRB. No QTL were found for udder conformation traits on chromosome 9.

18487670	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting twinning rate in Israeli Holsteins by the daughter design. Twinning rate was analyzed in the Israeli Holstein dairy cattle population by the multiple-trait animal model, and a daughter design genome scan for quantitative trait loci was performed. Each parity was considered a separate trait. Heritabilities of twinning rate were very low, but increased by parity from 0.01  in first parity to 0.03 in fifth parity. All genetic correlations among parities  were >0.77, but all environmental correlations were <0.07. Genetic correlations between twinning rate and female fertility (measured as the inverse of the number of inseminations to conception) in the first 3 parities were negative for all 9 parity-by-trait combinations. All environmental correlations were very small, but generally negative. The overall genetic trend since 1985 was positive at 0.02% twinning/yr, whereas the phenotypic trends were positive for parities 3 and 4 and negative for the other parities, but all trends were quite small. A total of 5,221 cows, daughters of 11 sires, were genotyped for 73 markers spanning all 29  autosomes. There were 9 markers with significant effects on twinning rate at P <  0.05, for a false discovery rate of 0.4; thus, about 5 of these probably represent true effects. Significant effects were found on chromosomes 1, 6, 7, 8, 14, 15, and 23. Of these, 3 effects were significant at P < 0.01, for a false discovery rate of 0.24. All 11 families were analyzed by interval mapping of chromosome 7. Only 2 families showed nominally significant effects, but chromosome-wise significance at P < 0.05 was not obtained for either family. Suggestive evidence of quantitative trait loci near the beginning of the chromosome and near position 50 cM were found in both families. Sire 3070 also had a significant effect for female fertility near the beginning of the chromosome. There was also evidence for a third quantitative trait loci at the end of the chromosome for sire 2357.

18487673	Pathogen-specific effects of quantitative trait loci affecting clinical mastitis  and somatic cell count in Danish Holstein cattle. The aim of this study was to investigate whether quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting the risk of clinical mastitis (CM) and QTL affecting somatic cell score (SCS) exhibit pathogen-specific effects on the incidence of mastitis. Bacteriological data on mastitis pathogens were used to investigate pathogen specificity of QTL affecting treatments of mastitis in first parity (CM1), second parity (CM2), and third parity (CM3), and QTL affecting SCS. The 5 most common mastitis pathogens in the Danish dairy population were analyzed: Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Escherichia coli, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Staphylococcus  aureus, and Streptococcus uberis. Data were analyzed using 2 approaches: an independence test and a generalized linear mixed model. Three different data sets were used to investigate the effect of data sampling: all samples, only samples that were followed by antibiotic treatment, and samples from first-crop daughters only. The results showed with high certainty that 2 QTL affecting SCS exhibited pathogen specificity against Staph. aureus and E. coli, respectively. The latter  result might be explained by a pleiotropic QTL that also affects CM2 and CM3. Less certain results were found for QTL affecting CM. A QTL affecting CM1 was found to be specific against Strep. dysgalactiae and Staph. aureus, a QTL affecting CM2 was found to be specific against E. coli, and finally a QTL affecting CM3 was found to be specific against Staph. aureus. None of the QTL analyzed was found to be specific against coagulase-negative staphylococci and Strep. uberis. Our results show that particular mastitis QTL are highly likely to exhibit pathogen-specificity. However, the results should be interpreted carefully because the results are sensitive to the sampling method and method of  analysis. Field data were used in this study. These kind of data may be heavily biased because there is no standard procedure for collecting milk samples for bacteriological analysis in Denmark. Furthermore, using only the mean SCS from d  10 to 180 after parturition may lead to truncated effects of SCS-QTL when samples collected after d 180 are used. Additionally, repeated samples were used, which could boost the difference in incidence of pathogens between daughters of sires inheriting the positive and negative QTL allele, respectively. However, the magnitude of these effects in this study is unclear.

18502878	A putative quantitative trait locus on chromosome 20 associated with bovine pathogenic disease incidence. The objective of this study was to detect QTL associated with the incidence of multiple pathogenic diseases in offspring from half-sib bovine families. Four F(1) sires were used to produce offspring: Brahman x Hereford (BH; n = 547), Piedmontese x Angus (PA; n = 209), Brahman x Angus (n = 176), and Belgian Blue x  MARC III (n = 246). Treatment records for bovine respiratory disease, infectious  keratoconjunctivitis (pinkeye), and infectious pododermatitis (footrot) were available for all of the offspring from birth to slaughter. The incidences of these 3 microbial pathogenic diseases were combined into a single binary trait to represent an overall pathogenic disease incidence. Offspring diagnosed and treated for 1 or more of the previously mentioned pathogenic diseases were coded  as a 1 for affected. Cattle with no treatment record were coded as 0 for healthy. A putative QTL for pathogenic disease incidence was detected in the family derived from the BH sire at the genome-wise suggestive level. This was supported  by evidence, in the same chromosomal region, of a similar QTL in the family derived from the PA sire. The maximum F-statistic (F = 13.52; P = 0.0003) was located at cM 18. The support interval of the QTL spanned from cM 9 to 28. Further studies should explore this QTL by using other bovine populations to further confirm the QTL and refine the QTL support interval. Offspring inheriting the Hereford allele, in the family from the BH sire, and the Angus allele, in the family from the PA sire, were less susceptible to incidence of pathogenic diseases, when compared with those inheriting the Brahman allele and Piedmontese  allele, from the BH and PA sires, respectively.

18562653	Quantitative trait locus-by-environment interaction for milk yield traits on Bos  taurus autosome 6. Genotype-by-environment interactions for production traits in dairy cattle have often been observed, while QTL analyses have focused on detecting genes with general effects on production traits. In this study, a QTL search for genes with  environmental interaction for the traits milk yield, protein yield, and fat yield were performed on Bos taurus autosome 6 (BTA6), also including information about  the previously investigated candidate genes ABCG2 and OPN. The animals in the study were Norwegian Red. Eighteen grandsires and 716 sires were genotyped for 362 markers on BTA6. Every marker bracket was regarded as a putative QTL position. The effects of the candidate genes and the putative QTL were modeled as a regression on an environmental parameter (herd year), which is based on the predicted herd-year effect for the trait. Two QTL were found to have environmentally dependent effects on milk yield. These QTL were located 3.6 cM upstream and 9.1 cM downstream from ABCG2. No environmentally dependent QTL was found to significantly affect protein or fat yield.

18565942	A whole-genome scan to map quantitative trait loci for conformation and functional traits in Canadian Holstein bulls. Genetic improvement of livestock populations can be achieved through detection and mapping of genetic markers linked to quantitative trait loci (QTL). With the  completion of the bovine genome sequence assembly, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) assays spanning the whole bovine genome and research work on large-scale identification, validation, and analysis of genotypic variation in cattle has become possible. A total of 462 Canadian Holstein Bulls were used to test the association between SNP and QTL. Single locus linkage disequilibrium regression model was implemented to perform a whole genome scan to identify and map QTL affecting conformation and functional traits. One thousand five hundred thirty-six SNP markers from introns and exons of potential QTL regions for economically important traits across the bovine genome were selected for association analysis. A total of 45 and 151 SNP were found to be associated with  17 conformation and functional traits at a genome- and chromosome-wise significance level, respectively. Among the 196 significant SNP, 169 of them are  newly detected in this study, whereas 27 of them have been reported in previous literature and 161 of these were located in genes and are worth further investigating to potentially identify the causative mutations underlying the QTL. The single locus linkage disequilibrium regression method using SNP marker genotypes has proven to be a successful methodology for detecting and mapping QTL in dairy cattle populations.

18590576	Variation at the Calpain 3 gene is associated with meat tenderness in zebu and composite breeds of cattle. BACKGROUND: Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) affecting meat tenderness have been reported on Bovine chromosome 10. Here we examine variation at the Calpain 3 (CAPN3) gene in cattle, a gene located within the confidence interval of the QTL, and which is a positional candidate gene based on the biochemical activity of the protein. RESULTS: We identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the genomic sequence of the CAPN3 gene and tested three of these in a sample of 2189 cattle.  Of the three SNP genotyped, the CAPN3:c.1538+225G>T had the largest significant additive effect, with an allele substitution effect in the Brahman of alpha = -0.144 kg, SE = 0.060, P = 0.016, and the polymorphism explained 1.7% of the residual phenotypic variance in that sample of the breed. Significant haplotype substitution effects were found for all three breeds, the Brahman, the Belmont Red, and the Santa Gertrudis. For the common haplotype, the haplotype substitution effect in the Brahman was alpha = 0.169 kg, SE = 0.056, P = 0.003. The effect of this gene was compared to Calpastatin in the same sample. The SNP show negligible frequencies in taurine breeds and low to moderate minor allele frequencies in zebu or composite animals. CONCLUSION: These associations confirm the location of a QTL for meat tenderness  in this region of bovine chromosome 10. SNP in or near this gene may be responsible for part of the overall difference between taurine and zebu breeds in meat tenderness, and the greater variability in meat tenderness found in zebu and composite breeds. The evidence provided so far suggests that none of these tested SNP are causative mutations.

18599673	Bovine quantitative trait loci analysis for growth, carcass, and meat quality traits in an F2 population from a cross between Japanese Black and Limousin. A genome-wide scan for QTL affecting economically important traits in beef production was performed using an F(2) resource family from a Japanese Black x Limousin cross, where 186 F(2) animals were measured for growth, carcass, and meat-quality traits. All family members were genotyped for 313 informative microsatellite markers that spanned 2,382 cM of bovine autosomes. The centromeric region of BTA2 contained significant QTL (i.e., exceeding the genome-wide 5% threshold) for 5 carcass grading traits [LM area, beef marbling standards (BMS) number, luster, quality grade, and firmness), 8 computer image analysis (CIA) traits [LM lean area, ratio of fat area (RFA) to LM area, LM area, RFA to musculus (M.) trapezius area, M. trapezius lean area, M. semispinalis lean area,  RFA to M. semispinalis area, and RFA to M. semispinalis capitis area], and 5 meat quality traits (contents of CP, crude fat, moisture, C16:1, and C18:2 of LM). A significant QTL for withers height was detected at 80.3 cM on BTA5. We detected significant QTL for the C14:0 content in backfat and C14:0 and C14:1 content in intermuscular fat around the 62.3 to 71.0 cM region on BTA19 and for C14:0, C14:1, C18:1, and C16:0 content and ratio of total unsaturated fatty acid content to total SFA content in intramuscular fat at 2 different regions on BTA19 (41.1 cM for C14:1 and 62.3 cM for the other 4 traits). Overall, we identified 9 significant QTL regions controlling 27 traits with genome-wide significance of 5%; of these, 22 traits exceeded the 1% genome-wide threshold. Some of the QTL affecting meat quality traits detected in this study might be the same QTL as previously reported. The QTL we identified need to be validated in commercial Japanese Black cattle populations.

18650296	Association between a polymorphism at the stearoyl CoA desaturase locus and milk  production traits in Italian Holsteins. Associations between stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) gene polymorphisms and milk production traits (milk, fat, and protein yields, fat and protein contents, somatic cell score) were investigated on a sample of 701 lactations of 313 Italian Holsteins. Test-day records (5,097) were analyzed with a mixed linear model that included the fixed effects of herd, date of test, parity, genotype at  the SCD locus, and lactation interval nested within SCD genotype, and the random  effect of cow. An effect of the SCD genotype on milk and protein yields was detected, with VV cows producing more milk (about 2 kg/d) and protein (about 0.07 kg/d) compared with AA cows. The contribution of the SCD locus to the phenotypic  variance of the 2 traits was about 0.015. These results suggest a possible use of the SCD locus in gene-assisted selection programs for the improvement of milk production traits in dairy cattle, although large-scale studies in different breeds are required.

18650297	Impact of single nucleotide polymorphisms in leptin, leptin receptor, growth hormone receptor, and diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1) gene loci on milk production, feed, and body energy traits of UK dairy cows. The impact of 9 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the leptin (LEP), leptin receptor (LEPR), growth hormone receptor (GHR), and diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1) gene loci on daily milk production, feed intake, and feed conversion, and weekly measures of live weight, BCS, and body energy traits was evaluated using genetic and phenotypic data on 571 Holstein cows raised at the Langhill Dairy Cattle Research Center in Scotland. Six SNP were typed on the LEP  gene and 1 on each of the other 3 loci. Of the 6 LEP SNP, 3 were in very high linkage disequilibrium, meaning there is little gain in typing all of them in the future. Seven LEP haplotypes were identified by parsimony-based analyses. Random-regression allele-substitution models were used to assess the impact of each SNP allele or haplotype on the traits of interest. Diacylglycerol acyltransferase had a significant effect on milk yield, whereas GHR significantly affected feed intake, feed conversion, and body energy traits. There was also evidence of dominance in allelic effects on milk yield and BCS. The LEP haplotype CCGTTT (corresponding to leptin SNP C207T, C528T, A1457G, C963T, A252T, and C305T, respectively) significantly affected milk yield and feed and dry matter intake. Animals carrying this haplotype produced 3.13 kg more milk daily and consumed 4.64 kg more feed. Furthermore, they tended to preserve more energy than average. Such results may be used to facilitate genetic selection in animal breeding programs.

18650300	A genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci for economically important traits in Holstein cattle using two methods and a dense single nucleotide polymorphism map. Genome scans for detection of bovine quantitative trait loci (QTL) were performed via variance component linkage analysis and linkage disequilibrium single-locus regression (LDRM). Four hundred eighty-four Holstein sires, of which 427 were from 10 grandsire families, were genotyped for 9,919 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) using the Affymetrix MegAllele GeneChip Bovine Mapping 10K SNP array. A hybrid of the grand-daughter and selective genotyping designs was applied. Four thousand eight hundred fifty-six of the 9,919 SNP were located to chromosomes in base-pairs and formed the basis for the analyses. The mean polymorphism information content of the SNP was 0.25. The SNP centimorgan position was interpolated from their base-pair position using a microsatellite framework map. Estimated breeding values were used as observations, and the following traits were analyzed: 305-d lactation milk, fat, and protein yield; somatic cell score; herd life; interval of calving to first service; and age at first service. The variance component linkage analysis detected 102 potential QTL, whereas LDRM analysis found 144 significant SNP associations after accounting for a 5% false discovery rate. Twenty potential QTL and 49 significant SNP associations were in close proximity to QTL cited in the literature. Both methods found significant regions on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 3, 5, and 16 for milk yield; BTA 14 and 19 for fat yield; BTA 1, 3, 16, and 28 for protein yield;  BTA 2 and 13 for calving to first service; and BTA 14 for age at first service. Both approaches were effective in detecting potential QTL with a dense SNP map. The LDRM was well suited for a first genome scan due to its approximately 8 times lower computational demands. Further fine mapping should be applied on the chromosomal regions of interest found in this study.

18670061	Association analysis of thyroglobulin gene variants with carcass and meat quality traits in beef cattle. Thyroid hormones play an important role in regulating the metabolism and can affect the homeostasis of fat deposition. The gene encoding thyroglobulin (TG), producing the precursor for thyroid hormones, has been proposed as a positional and functional candidate gene for a QTL with an effect on fat deposition. In the  present study, we identified 6 novel SNPs at the 3' flanking region of the TG gene. The SNP marker association analysis indicated that the SNP markers G133C, G156A, C220T and A506C were significantly associated with marbling score (P<0.05, N=271). Animals with the new homozygote genotype had higher marbling scores than  those with the other genotypes. Besides, the linkage disequilibrium analysis indicated that these 4 SNPs were completely linked (r2 = 1). Results of this study suggest that the TG-gene-specific SNP may be a useful marker for meat quality traits in future marker-assisted selection programmes in beef cattle.

18676722	Promoter region of the bovine growth hormone receptor gene: single nucleotide polymorphism discovery in cattle and association with performance in Brangus bulls. Expression of the GH receptor (GHR) gene and its binding with GH is essential for growth and fat metabolism. A GT microsatellite exists in the promoter of bovine GHR segregating short (11 bp) and long (16 to 20 bp) allele sequences. To detect  SNP and complete an association study of genotype to phenotype, we resequenced a  1,195-bp fragment of DNA including the GT microsatellite and exon 1A. Resequencing was completed in 48 familialy unrelated Holstein, Jersey, Brown Swiss, Simmental, Angus, Brahman, and Brangus cattle. Nine SNP were identified. Phylogeny analyses revealed minor distance (i.e., <5%) in DNA sequence among the  5 Bos taurus breeds; however, sequence from Brahman cattle averaged 27.4 +/- 0.07% divergence from the Bos taurus breeds, whereas divergence of Brangus was intermediate. An association study of genotype to phenotype was completed with data from growing Brangus bulls (n = 553 from 96 sires) and data from 4 of the SNP flanking the GT microsatellite. These SNP were found to be in Hardy-Weinberg  equilibrium and in phase based on linkage disequilibrium analyses (r(2) = 0.84 and D'= 0.92). An A/G tag SNP was identified (ss86273136) and was located in exon 1A, which began 88 bp downstream from the GT microsatellite. Minor allele frequency of the tag SNP was greater than 10%, and Mendelian segregation was verified in 3 generation pedigrees. The A allele was derived from Brahman, and the G allele was derived from Angus. This tag SNP genotype was a significant effect in analyses of rib fat data collected with ultrasound when bulls were ~365 d of age. Specifically, bulls of the GG genotype had 6.1% more (P = 0.0204) rib fat than bulls of the AA and AG genotypes, respectively. Tag SNP (ss86273136), located in the promoter of GHR, appears to be associated with a measure of corporal fat in Bos taurus x Bos indicus composite cattle.

18699830	Linkage of bilateral convergent strabismus with exophthalmus (BCSE) to BTA5 and BTA18 in German Brown cattle. Bilateral convergent strabismus with exophthalmus (BCSE) is a widespread inherited eye defect in several cattle populations. Its progressive condition often leads to blindness in affected cattle and decreases their usability. Furthermore, the German animal welfare laws prevent breeding with animals whose progeny are expected to be affected by genetic defects. Identifying genes involved in the heredity of BCSE should lead to insights into the molecular pathogenesis of this eye disease and permit the establishment of a genetic test for this disease. A whole-genome scan for 10 families containing a total of 159 genotyped individuals identified two BCSE loci. One BCSE locus mapped to the centromeric region on bovine chromosome (BTA) 5 and the other BCSE locus mapped to the telomeric region of BTA18. Thus, it is possible that two genes are involved in the development of BCSE. Alternatively, one of these loci could be the cause for the development of BCSE and the other locus could affect the progression and severity of the defect.

18700999	Detection of QTL for milk protein percentage in Italian Friesian cattle by AFLP markers and selective genotyping. We targeted quantitative trait loci (QTL) for milk protein percentage (P%) in two Italian Holstein granddaughter design families using selective genotyping in combination with high throughput amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. A total of 64 extreme high and low sires in respect to estimated breeding value (EBV) for P% (EBVP%) were genotyped with 25 AFLP primer combinations that revealed 305 and 291 polymorphisms in the two families. Association between markers and EBVP% was investigated by a linear model only on  bands having paternal origin (105 and 96 AFLP bands in family D and S, respectively). Although no marker was significantly associated with the target trait after correction for multiple comparisons, 17 AFLP markers, significant without correction for multiple tests, were considered suggestive of the presence of a QTL. Eleven of these were successfully located on six Bos taurus (BTA) chromosomes by radiation hybrid or in-silico mapping. Ten of these mapped in the  immediate neighbourhood (less than 10 cM) of already described QTL for P%. Suggestive association was verified in four regions by microsatellites analysis:  one on BTA 10; one on BTA 28; and two on BTA 18. Microsatellites identified significant effects by single marker and interval mapping analyses on BTA 10 and  BTA 28, while they were only suggestive of the presence of QTL on BTA 18. In summary, our results firstly indicate that AFLP markers may be used to seek QTL exploiting a selective genotyping approach in GDD, a wide used experimental design in cattle; secondly, propose two approaches for AFLP mapping, namely in-silico mapping exploiting most updated release from the bovine whole genome sequencing project, and physical mapping exploiting a panel of Bovine/Hamster Radiation Hybrids; and thirdly, provide new information on QTLs for an economic important trait in a never investigated Holstein cattle population. AFLP in combination with selective genotyping can be a useful strategy for QTL searching  in minor livestock species, sometimes having large economic impact in marginal areas, where more informative markers are still poorly developed.

18717969	Detection of quantitative trait loci affecting non-return rate in French dairy cattle. The purpose of this study was to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) influencing female fertility estimated by non-return rate (NRR) in the French dairy cattle breeds Prim'Holstein, Normande and Montbeliarde. The first step was a QTL detection study on NRR at 281 days after artificial insemination on 78 half-sib families including 4993 progeny tested bulls. In Prim'Holstein, three QTL were identified on Bos taurus chromosomes BTA01, BTA02 and BTA03 (p < 0.01), whereas one QTL was identified in Normande on BTA01 (p < 0.05). The second step aimed at  confirming these three QTL and refining their location by selecting and genotyping additional microsatellite markers on a sub-sample of 41 families from  the three breeds using NRR within 56, 90 and 281 days after AI. Only the three QTL initially detected in Prim'Holstein were confirmed. Moreover, the analysis of NRR within 56, 90 and 281 days after AI allowed us to distinguish two FF QTL on BTA02 in Prim'Holstein, one for NRR56 and one for NRR90. Estimated QTL variance was 18%, 14%, 11.5% and 14% of the total genetic variance, respectively, for QTL  mapping to BTA01, BTA02 (NRR90 and NRR56) and BTA03.

18784067	Identification of quantitative trait loci affecting cattle temperament. In addition to its potential contribution to improving animal welfare, the study  of the genetics of cattle behavior may provide more general insights into the genetic control of such complex traits. We carried out a genome scan in a Holstein x Charolais cross cattle population to identify quantitative trait loci  (QTL) influencing temperament-related traits. Individuals belonging to the second-generation of this population (F(2) and backcross individuals) were subjected to 2 behavioral tests. The flight from feeder (FF) test measured the distance at which the animal moved away from an approaching human observer, whereas the social separation (SS) test categorized different activities which the animal engaged in when removed from its penmates. The entire population was genotyped with 165 microsatellite markers. A regression interval mapping analysis identified 29 regions exceeding the 5% chromosome-wide significance level, which  individually explained a relatively small fraction of the phenotypic variance of  the traits (from 3.8% to 8.4%). One of the significant associations influencing an FF test trait on chromosome 29 reached the 5% genome-wide significance level.  Eight other QTL, all associated with an SS test trait, reached the 1% chromosome-wide significance level. The location of some QTL coincided with other previously reported temperament QTL in cattle, whereas those that are reported for the first time here may represent general loci controlling temperament differences between cattle breeds. No overlapping QTL were identified for the traits measured by the 2 different tests, supporting the hypothesis that different genetic factors influence behavioral responses to different situations.

18791147	Confirmation of quantitative trait loci using a low-density single nucleotide polymorphism map for twinning and ovulation rate on bovine chromosome 5. Traditional genetic selection in cattle for traits with low heritability, such as reproduction, has had very little success. With the addition of DNA technologies  to the genetic selection toolbox for livestock, the opportunity may exist to improve reproductive efficiency more rapidly in cattle. The US Meat Animal Research Center Production Efficiency Population has 9,186 twinning and 29,571 ovulation rate records for multiple generations of animals, but a significant number of these animals do not have tissue samples available for DNA genotyping.  The objectives of this study were to confirm QTL for twinning and ovulation rate  previously found on BTA5 and to evaluate the ability of GenoProb to predict genotypic information in a pedigree containing 16,035 animals when using genotypes for 24 SNP from 3 data sets containing 48, 724, or 2,900 animals. Marker data for 21 microsatellites on BTA5 with 297 to 3,395 animals per marker were used in conjunction with each data set of genotyped animals. Genotypic probabilities for females were used to calculate independent variables for regressions of additive, dominance, and imprinting effects. Genotypic regressions were fitted as fixed effects in a 2-trait mixed model analysis by using multiple-trait derivative-free REML. Each SNP was analyzed individually, followed by backward selection fitting all individually significant SNP simultaneously and then removing the least significant SNP until only significant SNP were left. Five significant SNP associations were detected for twinning rate and 3 were detected for ovulation rate. Two of these SNP, 1 for each trait, were significant for imprinting. Additional modeling of paternal and maternal allelic effects confirmed the initial results of imprinting done by contrasting heterozygotes. These results are supported by comparative mapping of mouse and human imprinted genes to this region of bovine chromosome 5.

18791150	Fine mapping quantitative trait loci for feed intake and feed efficiency in beef  cattle. Feed intake and feed efficiency are economically important traits in beef cattle  because feed is the greatest variable cost in production. Feed efficiency can be  measured as feed conversion ratio (FCR, intake per unit gain) or residual feed intake (RFI, measured as DMI corrected for BW and growth rate, and sometimes a measure of body composition, usually carcass fatness, RFI(bf)). The goal of this  study was to fine map QTL for these traits in beef cattle using 2,194 markers on  24 autosomes. The animals used were from 20 half-sib families originating from Angus, Charolais, and University of Alberta Hybrid bulls. A mixed model with random sire and fixed QTL effect nested within sire was used to test each location (cM) along the chromosomes. Threshold levels were determined at the chromosome and genome levels using 20,000 permutations. In total, 4 QTL exceeded  the genome-wise threshold of P < 0.001, 3 exceeded at P < 0.01, 17 at P < 0.05, and 30 achieved significance at the chromosome-wise threshold level (at least P < 0.05). No QTL were detected on BTA 8, 16, and 27 above the 5% chromosome-wise significance threshold for any of the traits. Nineteen chromosomes contained RFI  QTL significant at the chromosome-wise level. The RFI(bf) QTL results were generally similar to those of RFI, the positions being similar, but occasionally  differing in the level of significance. Compared with RFI, fewer QTL were detected for both FCR and DMI, 12 and 4 QTL, respectively, at the genome-wise thresholds. Some chromosomes contained FCR QTL, but not RFI QTL, but all DMI QTL  were on chromosomes where RFI QTL were detected. The most significant QTL for RFI was located on BTA 3 at 82 cM (P = 7.60 x 10(-5)), for FCR on BTA 24 at 59 cM (P  = 0.0002), and for DMI on BTA 7 at 54 cM (P = 1.38 x 10(-5)). The RFI QTL that showed the most consistent results with previous RFI QTL mapping studies were on  BTA 1, 7, 18, and 19. The identification of these QTL provides a starting point to identify genes affecting feed intake and efficiency for use in marker-assisted selection and management.

18791160	Search for quantitative trait loci affecting growth and carcass traits in a cross population of beef and dairy cattle. A genome scan to detect QTL influencing growth and carcass-related traits was conducted in a Charolais x Holstein crossbred cattle population. Phenotypic measurements related to growth and carcass traits were made on the 235 second-generation crossbred males of this herd (F2 and reciprocal backcrosses), which were born in 4 consecutive annual cohorts. Traits measured in vivo were related to birth dimensions, growth rates, and ultrasound measurements of fat and muscle depth. The animals were slaughtered near a target BW of 550 kg, and a wide range of postmortem traits were measured: visual assessment of carcass conformation and carcass fatness, estimated subcutaneous fat percentage, weights  of kidney knob and channel fat, and weights of carcass components after commercial and full-tissue dissections. The whole population, including grandparents, parents, and the crossbred bulls, was genotyped initially for 139 genome-wide microsatellite markers. Twenty-six additional markers were subsequently analyzed to increase marker density on some of the chromosomes where QTL had been initially identified. The linear regression analyses based on the 165 markers revealed a total of 51 significant QTL at the suggestive level, 21 of which were highly significant (F-value >or=9; based on the genome-wide thresholds obtained in the initial scan). A large proportion of the highly significant associations were found on chromosomes 5 and 6. The most highly significant QTL was localized between markers DIK1054 and DIK082 on chromosome 6 and explained about 20% of the phenotypic variance for the total bone proportion estimated after the commercial dissection. In the adjacent marker interval on this chromosome, 2 other highly significant QTL were found that explain about 30% of the phenotypic variance for birth dimension traits (BW and body length at birth). On chromosome 5, the most significant association influenced the lean:bone ratio  at the forerib joint and was flanked by markers DIK4782 and BR2936. Other highly  significant associations were detected on chromosomes 10 (estimated subcutaneous  fat percentage), 11 (total saleable meat proportion), 16 (prehousing growth rate), and 22 (bone proportion at the leg joint). These results provide a useful  starting point for the identification of the genes associated with traits of direct interest to the beef industry, using fine mapping or positional candidate  gene approaches.

18822099	The effects of polymorphisms in the DGAT1, leptin and growth hormone receptor gene loci on body energy, blood metabolic and reproductive traits of Holstein cows. The objective of this study was to examine the impact of polymorphisms in the acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), leptin and growth hormone receptor genes on body energy (body condition score, total body energy content and cumulative effective energy balance) and blood metabolic traits (levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate, glucose and non-esterified fatty acids), measured once before the first calving and then repeatedly throughout first lactation in 497 Holstein cows. The influence of the same polymorphisms on cow reproductive performance and health during the first and second lactations was also assessed.  Several reproductive traits were considered including interval, conception and insemination traits, as well as incidence of metritis and reproductive problems.  Genotyping was performed using PCR-RFLP (DGAT1, leptin) or allele-specific PCR (growth hormone receptor). For each locus, the effect of allele substitution on body energy and blood metabolic traits was estimated using random regression models. The same effect on reproductive traits was assessed with single-trait mixed linear models. Significant (P<0.05) effects on specific reproductive traits were observed. DGAT1 and growth hormone receptor alleles responsible for significant increases in milk production were found to have an adverse effect on  reproduction, while the leptin allele responsible for significant increase in milk production was linked to marginally increased metritis frequency. Furthermore, the three studied loci were also found to significantly (P<0.05) affect certain body energy and blood metabolic traits. Several associations are published for the first time, but these should be confirmed by other investigators before the polymorphisms are used in gene-assisted selection.

18832229	Detection of quantitative trait loci in Danish Holstein cattle affecting clinical mastitis, somatic cell score, udder conformation traits, and assessment of associated effects on milk yield. The aim of this study was to 1) detect QTL across the cattle genome that influence the incidence of clinical mastitis and somatic cell score (SCS) in Danish Holsteins, and 2) characterize these QTL for pleiotropy versus multiple linked quantitative trait loci (QTL) when chromosomal regions affecting clinical  mastitis were also affecting other traits in the Danish udder health index or milk production traits. The chromosomes were scanned using a granddaughter design where markers were typed for 19 to 34 grandsire families and 1,373 to 2,042 sons. A total of 356 microsatellites covering all 29 autosomes were used in the scan. Among the across-family regression analyses, 16 showed chromosome-wide significance for the primary traits incidence of clinical mastitis in first (CM1), second (CM2), and third (CM3) lactations, and SCS. Regions of chromosomes  5, 6, 9, 11, 15, and 26 were found to affect CM and regions of chromosomes 5, 6,  8, 13, 22, 23, 24, and 25 affected SCS. Markers on chromosomes 6, 11, 15, and 26  can be used to perform marker-assisted selection on CM without a direct negative  selection on milk yield, because no effects were detected on the milk traits. Comparing multi-trait models assuming either a pleiotropic QTL affecting 2 traits or 2 QTL each affecting 1 trait gave some evidence to distinguish between these models. For Bos taurus autosome 5, the most likely models were a pleiotropic QTL  affecting CM2, CM3, and SCS, and a linked QTL affecting fat yield index. For Bos  taurus autosome 9, the most likely model is a pleiotropic QTL affecting CM1 and CM2 at approximately 8 cM.

18946144	Mapping quantitative trait Loci for left-sided displacement of the abomasum in German Holstein dairy cows. A whole-genome scan using an affected paternal half-sib design was utilized to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for left-sided displaced abomasum (LDA) in German Holsteins. A total of 360 animals from 14 paternal half-sib families were  genotyped, for a total of 306 polymorphic microsatellites. For a whole-genome scan, 221 markers were equally distributed over all 29 bovine autosomes, with an  average distance of 13.7 cM. For fine-mapping, a total of 85 additional microsatellites were used. We identified genome-wide significant QTL on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 1 (54.6 to 58.3 cM) and on BTA3 (5.9 cM). Furthermore, 3 chromosome-wide significant QTL were located on bovine chromosomes 21, 23, and 24. In addition, we found 11 QTL that cosegregated in grandsire families but that were not significant in the across-family analysis. These QTL were located on BTA5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19, 23, and 26. This study is the first report on QTL for LDA and is a first step toward identifying single nucleotide polymorphisms for LDA-QTL.

18997068	Refined mapping of twinning-rate quantitative trait loci on bovine chromosome 5 and analysis of insulin-like growth factor-1 as a positional candidate gene. Twinning in cattle is a complex trait that is associated with economic loss and health issues such as abortion, dystocia, and reduced calf survival. Twinning-rate QTL have been detected previously on BTA5 in the North American Holstein and Norwegian dairy cattle populations and in a USDA herd selected for high twinning rate. In previous work with the North American Holstein population, the strongest evidence for a QTL was obtained from analysis of an extended, multiple-generation family. Using additional animals, an increased density of SNP marker association tests, and a combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium mapping method, we refined the position of this QTL in the North American Holstein population. Two sets of twinning-rate predicted transmitting abilities estimated during 2 different time periods in the North American dairy cattle population were used to provide validation of results. A total of 106 SNP and 3 microsatellites were used to scan the genomic region between 5 and 80 Mb on BTA5. Combined linkage-linkage disequilibrium analysis identified significant evidence  for QTL within the 25- to 35-Mb and 64- to 70-Mb regions of BTA5. The IGF-1 gene  (IGF1) was examined as a positional candidate gene and an SNP in intron 2 of IGF1 was significantly associated with twinning rate by using both data sets (P = 0.003 and P = 1.05 x 10(-6)). Replication of this association in other cattle populations will be required to examine the extent of linkage disequilibrium with the underlying quantitative trait nucleotide across breeds.

19016677	Whole-genome scan for quantitative trait loci associated with birth weight, gestation length and passive immune transfer in a Holstein x Jersey crossbred population. We herein report results from a daughter design genome-scan study aiming to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with birth weight, direct gestation length and passive immune transfer in a backcross (Holstein x Jersey) x Holstein population. Two-hundred and seventy-six calves, offspring of seven crossbred sires, were genotyped for 161 microsatellite markers distributed along  the 29 bovine autosomes. The genome scan was performed through interval mapping using an animal model in order to identify QTL accounting for phenotypic differences between individual animals. Based on significant chi-squared values,  we identified putative QTL on BTA7 and BTA14 for gestation length, on BTA2, BTA6  and BTA14 for birth weight and on BTA20 for passive immune transfer. In total, these QTL accounted for 12%, 18% and 1% of the phenotypic variance in gestation length, birth weight and passive immune transfer respectively. We also report results from a supplementary and independent influential grand-daughter Holstein  family. In this family, findings on BTA7 and BTA14 for direct gestation length were in agreement with results in the crossbred population. Two other regions on  BTA6 and BTA21 putatively underlying QTL for direct gestation length variability  were discovered with this analysis.

19032698	Novel polymorphisms in the bovine beta-lactoglobulin gene and their effects on beta-lactoglobulin protein concentration in milk. The aim of our study was to detect new polymorphisms in the bovine beta-lactoglobulin (beta-LG) gene with significant effects on beta-LG protein concentration. Genomic DNA samples from 22 proven bulls were screened for polymorphisms in the coding and promoter regions of the beta-LG gene. In total, 50 polymorphisms were detected. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (g.1772G>A and g.3054C>T) lead to amino acid changes and are the causal genetic polymorphisms of beta-LG protein variants A and B. Forty-two polymorphisms were in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) with beta-LG protein variants A and B. Any of these 42 polymorphisms can be involved in the differential expression of the respective A and B alleles of the beta-LG gene. The eight polymorphisms not in complete LD with beta-LG protein variants A and B and the two polymorphisms causing the amino acid changes were genotyped in a set of 208 cows: 106 animals homozygous for beta-LG protein variant A and 102 animals homozygous for beta-LG protein variant B. Of these eight polymorphisms, six SNPs segregated only within  the cows homozygous for beta-LG protein variant A and two SNPs segregated only within the cows homozygous for beta-LG protein variant B. One of the eight polymorphisms had a significant effect on beta-LG protein concentration. This SNP, g.-731G>A, segregated only within the 106 cows homozygous for beta-LG protein variant A. Within these cows, adjusted relative beta-LG protein concentration was reduced by 1.22% (w/w) in animals homozygous g.-731AA compared  with animals homozygous g.-731GG.

19133939	Association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the endothelial differentiation sphingolipid G-protein-coupled receptor 1 gene with marbling in Japanese Black beef cattle. Marbling defined by the amount and distribution of intramuscular fat, so-called Shimofuri, is an economically important trait of beef cattle in Japan. The endothelial differentiation sphingolipid G-protein-coupled receptor 1 (EDG1) gene, involved in blood vessel formation, has been previously shown to be expressed at different levels in musculus longissimus muscle between low-marbled  and high-marbled steer groups. It is located within the genomic region of a quantitative trait locus for marbling, and thus was considered as a positionally  functional candidate for the gene responsible for marbling. In this study, two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) and the 3' UTR of EDG1, referred to as c.-312A>G and c.*446G>A, respectively, were detected between the two steer groups. The two SNPs were associated with the predicted breeding value for beef marbling standard number by analyses using a population of Japanese Black beef cattle. The effect of genotypes at each of the  SNPs on the predicted breeding value for subcutaneous fat thickness was not statistically significant (P > 0.05). Reporter gene assays revealed no significant differences in gene expression between alleles at each of the SNPs. These findings suggest that EDG1 SNPs, although they may not be regarded as a causal mutation, may be useful for effective marker-assisted selection to increase the levels of marbling in Japanese Black beef cattle.

19164688	Fine mapping and association analysis of a quantitative trait locus for milk production traits on Bos taurus autosome 4. To fine map a quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting milk production traits previously associated with microsatellite RM188, we implemented an interval mapping analysis by using microsatellite markers in a large Israeli Holstein half-sib sire family, and linkage disequilibrium (LD) mapping in a large set of US Holstein bulls. Interval mapping located the target QTL to the near vicinity of RM188. For the LD mapping, we identified 42 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in 15 genes in a 12-Mb region on bovine chromosome 4. A total of 24 tag SNP were genotyped in 882 bulls belonging to the University of California Davis archival collection of Holstein bull DNA samples with predicted transmitted ability phenotypes. Marker-to-marker LD analysis revealed 2 LD blocks, with intrablock r(2) values of 0.10 and 0.46, respectively; outside the blocks, r(2) values ranged from 0.002 to 0.23. A standard additive/dominance model using the generalized linear model procedure of SAS and the regression module of HelixTree  software were used to test marker-trait associations. Single nucleotide polymorphism 9 on ARL4A, SNP10 on XR_027435.1, SNP12 on ETV1, SNP21 on SNX13, and SNP24 were significantly associated with milk production traits. We propose the interval encompassing ARL4A and SNX13 genes as a candidate region in bovine chromosome 4 for a concordant QTL related to milk protein traits in dairy cattle. Functional studies are needed to confirm this result.

19220232	Genome-wide scan for bovine twinning rate QTL using linkage disequilibrium. Twinning is a complex trait with negative impacts on health and reproduction, which cause economic loss in dairy production. Several twinning rate quantitative trait loci (QTL) have been detected in previous studies, but confidence intervals for QTL location are broad and many QTL are unreplicated. To identify genomic regions or genes associated with twinning rate, QTL analysis based on linkage combined with linkage disequilibrium (LLD) and individual marker associations was conducted across the genome using high-throughput single nucleotide polymorphism  (SNP) genotypes. A total of 9919 SNP markers were genotyped with 200 sires and sons in 19 half-sib North American Holstein dairy cattle families. After SNPs were genotyped, informative markers were selected for genome-wide association tests and QTL searches. Evidence for twinning rate QTL was found throughout the genome. Thirteen markers significantly associated with twinning rate were detected on chromosomes 2, 5 and 14 (P < 2.3 x 10(-5)). Twenty-six regions on fourteen chromosomes were identified by LLD analysis at P < 0.0007. Seven previously reported ovulation or twinning rate QTL were supported by results of single marker association or LLD analyses. Single marker association analysis and LLD mapping were complementary tools for the identification of putative QTL in this genome scan.

19233813	Effects of milk protein variants on the protein composition of bovine milk. The effects of beta-lactoglobulin (beta-LG), beta-casein (beta-CN), and kappa-CN  variants and beta-kappa-CN haplotypes on the relative concentrations of the major milk proteins alpha-lactalbumin (alpha-LA), beta-LG, alpha(S1)-CN, alpha(S2)-CN,  beta-CN, and kappa-CN and milk production traits were estimated in the milk of 1,912 Dutch Holstein-Friesian cows. We show that in the Dutch Holstein-Friesian population, the allele frequencies have changed in the past 16 years. In addition, genetic variants and casein haplotypes have a major impact on the protein composition of milk and explain a considerable part of the genetic variation in milk protein composition. The beta-LG genotype was associated with the relative concentrations of beta-LG (A >> B) and of alpha-LA, alpha(S1)-CN, alpha(S2)-CN, beta-CN, and kappa-CN (B > A) but not with any milk production trait. The beta-CN genotype was associated with the relative concentrations of beta-CN and alpha(S2)-CN (A(2) > A(1)) and of alpha(S1)-CN and kappa-CN (A(1) > A(2)) and with protein yield (A(2) > A(1)). The kappa-CN genotype was associated  with the relative concentrations of kappa-CN (B > E > A), alpha(S2)-CN (B > A), alpha-LA, and alpha(S1)-CN (A > B) and with protein percentage (B > A). Comparing the effects of casein haplotypes with the effects of single casein variants can provide better insight into what really underlies the effect of a variant on protein composition. We conclude that selection for both the beta-LG genotype B and the beta-kappa-CN haplotype A(2)B will result in cows that produce milk that  is more suitable for cheese production.

19254385	Mapping QTL influencing gastrointestinal nematode burden in Dutch Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: Parasitic gastroenteritis caused by nematodes is only second to mastitis in terms of health costs to dairy farmers in developed countries. Sustainable control strategies complementing anthelmintics are desired, including selective breeding for enhanced resistance. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: To quantify and characterize the genetic contribution to  variation in resistance to gastro-intestinal parasites, we measured the heritability of faecal egg and larval counts in the Dutch Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle population. The heritability of faecal egg counts ranged from 7 to 21% and was generally higher than for larval counts. We performed a whole genome scan in  12 paternal half-daughter groups for a total of 768 cows, corresponding to the approximately 10% most and least infected daughters within each family (selective genotyping). Two genome-wide significant QTL were identified in an across-family  analysis, respectively on chromosomes 9 and 19, coinciding with previous findings in orthologous chromosomal regions in sheep. We identified six more suggestive QTL by within-family analysis. An additional 73 informative SNPs were genotyped on chromosome 19 and the ensuing high density map used in a variance component approach to simultaneously exploit linkage and linkage disequilibrium in an initial inconclusive attempt to refine the QTL map position.

19291389	Novel mutations of the FASN gene and their effect on fatty acid composition in Japanese Black beef. Eight novel and four known mutations were detected in the coding sequence of the  bovine fatty acid synthase (FASN) gene of an F2 population from Japanese Black and Limousin cattle. Two mutations, g.16024A>G and g.16039T>C, detected in exon 34, which determine amino acid substitutions of threonine (T) to alanine (A) and  tryptophan (W) to arginine (R), were clearly separated in the parental breeds. The haplotypes (TW and AR) segregated in F2 individuals and had a significant effect on the fatty acid composition of backfat, intermuscular fat, and intramuscular fat. The TW haplotype was associated with increasing C18:0 and C18:1 content and the ratio of monounsaturated to saturated fatty acids, and decreasing C14:0, C14:1, C16:0, and C16:1 content. The two mutations were screened in two commercial Japanese Black half-sibling populations and similarly  determined the contribution to the fatty acid composition of intramuscular fat. The frequency of the TW haplotype was markedly higher in Japanese Black (0.67) than in Holstein (0.17), Angus (0.02), and Hereford (0.07). We conclude that these mutations may contribute to the characteristic fatty acid composition of Japanese Black beef.

19389971	Genome scan detects quantitative trait loci affecting female fertility traits in  Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. Data from the joint Nordic breeding value prediction for Danish and Swedish Holstein grandsire families were used to locate quantitative trait loci (QTL) for female fertility traits in Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. Up to 36 Holstein  grandsires with over 2,000 sons were genotyped for 416 microsatellite markers. Single trait breeding values were used for 12 traits relating to female fertility and female reproductive disorders. Data were analyzed by least squares regression analysis within and across families. Twenty-six QTL were detected on 17 different chromosomes. The best evidence was found for QTL segregating on Bos taurus chromosome (BTA)1, BTA7, BTA10, and BTA26. On each of these chromosomes, several  QTL were detected affecting more than one of the fertility traits investigated in this study. Evidence for segregation of additional QTL on BTA2, BTA9, and BTA24 was found.

19392828	Effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms of CAPN1 and CAST genes on meat traits  in Nellore beef cattle (Bos indicus) and in their crosses with Bos taurus. The objectives of this work were to study the segregation of single nucleotide polymorphisms of the calpain 1, large subunit (CAPN1) and calpastatin (CAST) genes in Nellore (Bos indicus) and Nellore xBos taurus beef cattle, as well as to evaluate their effects on meat traits. For this, 300 animals, including 114 Nellore, 67 Angus x Nellore, 44 Rubia Gallega x Nellore, 41 Canchim, 19 Brangus three-way crosses and 15 Braunvieh three-way crosses, were genotyped for the CAPN4751 [AF_248054.2:g.6545C>T (GenBank accession AF248054.2)] and CAST/DdeI [AF_159246.1:g.2959A>G (GenBank accession AF159246.1)] polymorphisms and phenotyped for Ribeye Area, Backfat Thickness, Intramuscular Fat, Shear Force (SF) and Myofibrillar Fragmentation Index (MFI). In relation to the CAPN4751 polymorphism, a frequency of 10.5% was observed for the C allele in the Nellore breed. In the total sample of studied animals, a significant association was found between genotypes and meat tenderness, assessed by SF (P = 0.005) and MFI (P = 0.008), with genotype CT being more favourable than TT. For the CAST/DdeI polymorphism, a frequency of 55.7% was found for the A allele in the Nellore breed. In the total sample, a significant association was observed between genotypes and meat tenderness - SF (P = 0.004) and MFI (P = 0.006), with genotype AA being more favourable than AG. The relationship between genotypes and aged meat tenderness in confluence with the distribution of favourable alleles shows great potential for application of the CAPN4751 and CAST/DdeI polymorphisms in the genetic improvement of the Nellore breed, whilst contributing to the validation, in this breed and in its crosses with B. taurus, of the association results previously described in the literature.

19395506	Polymorphisms in positional candidate genes on BTA14 and BTA26 affect carcass quality in beef cattle. Several studies have reported the presence of carcass quality QTL on BTA14 and BTA26, with no specific genes being conclusively linked as their cause. The aim of this study was to identify polymorphisms in genes known to affect lipid metabolism in other species and to assess their association with carcass quality  traits. Two genes located on BTA14, 2,4 dienoyl CoA reductase 1 (DECR1) and core  binding factor, runt domain, alpha subunit 2, translocated to 1 gene (CBFA2T1), have been previously evaluated in other species and found to contain polymorphisms influencing lipid metabolism. A gene on BTA26, fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8), has in recent studies been linked to several QTL affecting obesity in mice, indicating its potential for regulating adiposity in other species. Sequencing analysis identified 9 polymorphisms in DECR1, 4 in CBFA2T1, and 4 in FGF8. Multiple sequence alignment of DECR1 among cattle, humans, and mice showed that 4 of these mutations lie in conserved regions across these species. Using 464 Angus, Charolais, and crossbred animals produced associations  with ultrasound marbling score (CBFA2T1, P = 0.019), ultrasound backfat (DECR1, P = 0.012), carcass backfat (FGF8, P = 0.004), and lean meat yield (FGF8, P = 0.005). Quantitative trait loci analysis including a set of previously genotyped  markers on BTA14, and 1 DECR1 polymorphism resulted in several significant QTL peaks: ultrasound backfat (UBF) at 91 cM, lean meat yield at 86 cM, carcass gradefat at 15 cM, and yield grade at 87 cM, all at the P < 0.05 level. Using DECR1 as a genetic covariate removed the UBF QTL, indicating that this SNP was contributing to the variation observed in UBF. A similar analysis was performed on BTA26 using 1 of the FGF8 polymorphisms. Results showed significant peaks for  lean meat yield at 2 cM and for yield grade at 25 cM, both at P < 0.01, and for carcass backfat at 25 cM (P < 0.05). Removal of FGF8 SNP in further analysis resulted in the disappearance of the carcass backfat QTL. These results suggest that polymorphisms discovered in DECR1, CBFA2T1, and FGF8 may play a role in the  lipid metabolism pathway affecting carcass quality traits in beef cattle. However, further studies are needed to confirm that these polymorphisms are responsible for the differences observed in carcass quality in beef cattle.

19397517	Fine mapping of quantitative trait loci for mastitis resistance on bovine chromosome 11. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting clinical mastitis (CM) and somatic cell score (SCS) were mapped on bovine chromosome 11. The mapping population consisted of 14 grandsire families belonging to three Nordic red cattle breeds: Finnish Ayrshire (FA), Swedish Red and White (SRB) and Danish Red. The families had previously been shown to segregate for udder health QTL. A total of 524 progeny tested bulls were included in the analysis. A linkage map including 33 microsatellite and five SNP markers was constructed. We performed combined linkage disequilibrium and linkage analysis (LDLA) using the whole data set. Further analyses were performed for FA and SRB separately to study the origin of  the identified QTL/haplotype and to examine if it was common in both populations. Finally, different two-trait models were fitted. These postulated either a pleiotropic QTL affecting both traits; two linked QTL, each affecting one trait;  or one QTL affecting a single trait. A QTL affecting CM was fine-mapped. In FA, a haplotype having a strong association with a high negative effect on mastitis resistance was identified. The mapping precision of an earlier detected SCS-QTL was not improved by the LDLA analysis because of lack of linkage disequilibrium between the markers used and the QTL in the region.

19397519	Whole genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci for bovine milk protein composition. The objective of this study was to perform a whole genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for milk protein composition in 849 Holstein-Friesian cows originating from seven sires. One morning milk sample was  analysed for the major milk proteins using capillary zone electrophoresis. A genetic map was constructed with 1341 single nucleotide polymorphisms, covering 2829 centimorgans (cM) and 95% of the cattle genome. The chromosomal regions most significantly related to milk protein composition (P(genome) < 0.05) were found on Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) 6, 11 and 14. The QTL on BTA6 was found at about 80 cM, and affected alpha(S1)-casein, alpha(S2)-casein, beta-casein and kappa-casein. The QTL on BTA11 was found at 124 cM, and affected beta-lactoglobulin, and the QTL on BTA14 was found at 0 cM, and affected protein  percentage. The proportion of phenotypic variance explained by the QTL was 3.6% for beta-casein and 7.9% for kappa-casein on BTA6, 28.3% for beta-lactoglobulin on BTA11, and 8.6% for protein percentage on BTA14. The QTL affecting alpha(S2)-casein on BTA6 and 17 showed a significant interaction. We investigated the extent to which the detected QTL affecting milk protein composition could be  explained by known polymorphisms in beta-casein, kappa-casein, beta-lactoglobulin and DGAT1 genes. Correction for these polymorphisms decreased the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by the QTL previously found on BTA6, 11 and 14. Thus, several significant QTL affecting milk protein composition were found, of which some QTL could partially be explained by polymorphisms in milk protein genes.

19398771	Mutation in bovine beta-carotene oxygenase 2 affects milk color. beta-Carotene biochemistry is a fundamental process in mammalian biology. Aberrations either through malnutrition or potentially through genetic variation  may lead to vitamin A deficiency, which is a substantial public health burden. In addition, understanding the genetic regulation of this process may enable bovine  improvement. While many bovine QTL have been reported, few of the causative genes and mutations have been identified. We discovered a QTL for milk beta-carotene and subsequently identified a premature stop codon in bovine beta-carotene oxygenase 2 (BCO2), which also affects serum beta-carotene content. The BCO2 enzyme is thereby identified as a key regulator of beta-carotene metabolism.

19422364	A whole genome association analysis identifies loci associated with Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis infection status in US holstein cattle. The purpose of this study was to identify loci associated with Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (Map) infection status in US Holsteins using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip whole genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) assay. Two hundred forty-five cows from dairies in New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont enrolled in longitudinal herd studies between January 1999 and November 2007 were assessed for the presence of Map in both faecal and tissue samples. An animal was considered tissue infected if any sample contained at least one colony forming unit of Map per gram of tissue (CFU/g) and the same definition was employed for faecal samples. Each animal was genotyped with the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip and after quality assurance filtering, 218 animals  and 45 683 SNPs remained. We sought to identify loci associated with four different case/control classifications: presence of Map in the tissue, presence of Map in faeces, presence of Map in both tissue and faeces and presence of Map in tissue but not faeces. A case-control genome wide association study was conducted to test the four different classifications of Map infection status (cases) when compared with a Map-negative control group (control). Regions on chromosomes 1, 5, 7, 8, 16, 21 and 23 were identified with moderate significance  (P < 5 x 10(-5)). Two regions, one on chromosome 3 (near EDN2) and another on chromosome 9 (no positional gene candidates), were identified with a high level of association to the presence of Map in tissue and both tissue and faeces respectively (P < 5 x 10(-7), genome-wide Bonferonni P < 0.05).

19422365	Quantitative trait loci for live animal and carcass composition traits in Jersey  and Limousin back-cross cattle finished on pasture or feedlot. A quantitative trait locus (QTL) study was carried out in two countries, recording live animal and carcass composition traits. Back-cross calves (385 heifers and 398 steers) were generated, with Jersey and Limousin breed backgrounds. The New Zealand cattle were reared on pasture to carcass weights averaging 229 kg, whilst the Australian cattle were reared on grass and finished  on grain (for at least 180 days) to carcass weights averaging 335 kg. From 11 live animal traits and 31 carcass composition traits respectively, 5 and 22 QTL were detected in combined-sire analyses, which were significant (P < 0.05) on a genome-wise basis. Fourteen significant traits for carcass composition QTL were on chromosome 2 and these were traits associated with muscling and fatness. This  chromosome carried a variant myostatin allele (F94L), segregating from the Limousin ancestry. Despite very different cattle management systems between the two countries, the two populations had a large number of QTL in common. Of the 18 traits which were common to both countries, and which had significant QTL at the  genome-wise level, eight were significant in both countries.

19456315	Analysis of segregation distortion and association of the bovine FGF2 with fertilization rate and early embryonic survival. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) plays an important role in fertility and early  embryo development. The objectives of this study were to test the association of  FGF2 polymorphisms with fertilization success in cattle using an in vitro fertilization experimental system and to investigate the mechanisms leading to the presence of rare alleles of FGF2 in the Holstein population. A total of 7502  fertilizations were performed and a total of 5049 embryos were produced to collect fertilization and embryo survival records. A total of 444 ovaries, from which oocytes were aspirated and fertilized, were genotyped for two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) previously identified in FGF2 (g.23G>T and g.11646A>G). Frequency of the TT genotype of the g.23G>T SNP was low in the ovary population (5.4%) and in a different Holstein cattle population (6.6%) examined in this study. Single SNP analysis showed that both SNPs were associated with early embryonic survival rate. Two-way interaction analysis revealed significant  association of epistatic interaction between the SNPs with fertilization rate. To test whether or not low frequency of allele T for the g.23G>T SNP in the population is a result of a fertilization failure of T oocytes, semen from six GG bulls was used to fertilize a total of 458 oocytes obtained from 19 GT ovaries. A significant segregation distortion was observed for 169 embryos genotyped for the g.23G>T SNP. We conclude that oocytes carrying the T allele show a reduced fertilization rate and that segregation distortion leads to rarity of the TT genotype in the population.

19466932	Association analyses of a SNP in the promoter of IGF1 with fat deposition and carcass merit traits in hybrid, Angus and Charolais beef cattle. A SNP in the promoter region of insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF1) (c.-512C>T) was analysed for associations with 10 fat deposition and carcass merit traits in  hybrid (n = 455), Angus (n = 204) and Charolais (n = 186) beef cattle populations. Significant associations of the SNP were found for ultrasound backfat thickness (P = 0.030), carcass average backfat (P = 0.015) and carcass lean meat yield (LMY) (P = 0.023) in the Angus beef population, with the 'CC' genotype showing higher fat depth and lower LMY than the 'TT' genotype. Analyses  of transcription factor binding sites based on transcription element search system prediction revealed that the 'C' allele introduces a binding site for nuclear factor I, which has an adipose tissue-specific regulatory role and thus may contribute to the SNP effect on fat deposition in the population of pure Angus cattle, a breed with greater fat depth than the hybrid and Charolais breeds.

19466936	A splice site single nucleotide polymorphism of the fatty acid binding protein 4  gene appears to be associated with intramuscular fat deposition in longissimus muscle in Australian cattle. Fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4) is a candidate gene affecting fatness traits of mammals. However, its association with fatness traits in cattle and other livestock species is not consistent from one study to another. Here, we sequenced the coding sequence of FABP4 looking for non-synonymous variants. We identified a splice site mutation between the third exon and the third intron of bovine FABP4. We genotyped this SNP, FABP4:g.2502C>G, in 1409 cattle with intramuscular fat measurements from seven breeds. The average allele frequency of the C allele was  0.66 with a range of 0.45 to 0.85. A regression on the number of G alleles shows  a statistically significant effect of alpha = 0.11, P = 0.044. This appears to confirm an association between IMF and variation at FABP4, with an effect of 0.3% of the variation in our sample when using this SNP.

19466939	Effects of leptin Arg25Cys on peripheral mononuclear cell counts and antibody response to vaccination in beef cattle. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the leptin gene that results in Arg25Cys has been associated with beef carcass quality and milk composition in dairy cattle. However, leptin (LEP) also plays a role in immune performance and hence it was important to determine whether selection based on this SNP would negatively affect immune cell numbers or antibody production. LEP c.73C>T was assessed for effects on immune cell counts and antibody titres in 27 beef cattle  herds (n = 556). A commercial rabies vaccine had been administered to these animals. Prior to being vaccinated, counts of several important mononuclear cells (total and activated B lymphocytes, total and activated T helper and T cytotoxic, WC1 T lymphocytes and monocytes) as well as baseline serum antibody titres were determined for each animal. On day 21, antibody titres were measured and a booster vaccine was administered. Finally on day 42, antibody titres and mononuclear cell types were again counted. Counts of six different cell types were significantly associated with the LEP genotype; however, no consistent patterns were observed between LEP genotype (TT, CT or CC) and peripheral blood mononuclear cell populations. Significant differences in the production of rabies antibodies in response to vaccination were observed relative to LEP genotype. Our results suggest that selection for either the C or T allele would not detrimentally impact on the measured indicators of immune function in beef cattle.

19519791	Polymorphisms in the STAT6 gene and their association with carcass traits in feedlot cattle. Identification of the genes and polymorphisms underlying quantitative traits, and understanding how these genes and polymorphisms affect economic traits, are important for successful marker-assisted selection and more efficient management  strategies in commercial cattle populations. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) gene is tightly connected to IL-4 and IL-13 signalling and plays a key role in T(H)2 polarization of the immune system. In addition, STAT6 acts as a mediator of leptin signalling and has been associated with body weight regulation. The objective of this study was to determine if SNPs within the bovine STAT6 gene are associated with economically important traits in feedlot cattle. The approach consisted of resequencing STAT6 using a panel of DNA from unrelated animals of different beef breeds. Specifically, 16 kb of STAT6 was resequenced in 47 animals and the process revealed 39 SNPs. From the 39 SNPs, a panel of 15 tag SNPs was genotyped in 1500 beef cattle samples with phenotypes to perform a marker-trait association analysis. Among the 15 tag SNPs, five and six  were polymorphic in Bos taurus and Bos indicus respectively. An association analysis was performed between the 15 tag SNPs and 14 performance and production  traits. SNP ss115492459:C > A, ss115492461:A > G and ss115492458:G > C were significantly associated with back fat, calculated yield grade, cutability, hot carcass weight, dry matter intake, days on feed, back fat rate and average daily  gain. These three SNPs were present in all Bos taurus beef breeds examined. Our results provide evidence that polymorphisms in STAT6 are associated with carcass  and growth efficiency traits, and may be used for marker-assisted selection and management in feedlot cattle.

19531114	Genome scan for the degree of white spotting in dairy cattle. White spotting is one of the most distinguishing visual characters in dairy cattle. There is considerable variation within and between breeds of cattle. The  objective of this study was to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting the degree of white spotting in dairy cattle based on an F(2) experimental design using Holstein-Friesian and Jersey crossbred cows. The genome scan was implemented using half-sib and line-of-descent approaches with high density markers. Significant QTL were found on chromosomes 6, 18 and 22. The mapped region on BTA6 confirmed the widely conserved KIT locus affecting mammalian pigmentation. Haplotype information linked the highly significant QTL on BTA22 to the Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) gene, which has been reported to be associated with pigmentation traits in some other mammals.

19555501	Association of selected SNP with carcass and taste panel assessed meat quality traits in a commercial population of Aberdeen Angus-sired beef cattle. BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), previously associated with meat and milk quality  traits in cattle, in a population of 443 commercial Aberdeen Angus-cross beef cattle. The eight SNP, which were located within five genes: mu-calpain (CAPN1),  calpastatin (CAST), leptin (LEP), growth hormone receptor (GHR) and acylCoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), are included in various commercial tests for tenderness, fatness, carcass composition and milk yield/quality. METHODS: A total of 27 traits were examined, 19 relating to carcass quality, such as carcass weight and fatness, one mechanical measure of tenderness, and the remaining seven were sensory traits, such as flavour and tenderness, assessed by  a taste panel. RESULTS: An SNP in the CAPN1 gene, CAPN316, was significantly associated with tenderness measured by both the tenderometer and the taste panel as well as the weight of the hindquarter, where animals inheriting the CC genotype had more tender meat and heavier hindquarters. An SNP in the leptin gene, UASMS2, significantly affected overall liking, where animals with the TT genotype were assigned higher scores by the panellists. The SNP in the GHR gene was significantly associated with odour, where animals inheriting the AA genotype produced steaks with an intense odour when compared with the other genotypes. Finally, the SNP in the DGAT1 gene was associated with sirloin weight after maturation and fat depth surrounding the sirloin, with animals inheriting the AA  genotype having heavier sirloins and more fat. CONCLUSION: The results of this study confirm some previously documented associations. Furthermore, novel associations have been identified which, following validation in other populations, could be incorporated into breeding programmes to improve meat quality.

19590978	A novel polymorphism of GDF5 gene and its association with body measurement traits in Bos taurus and Bos indicus breeds. Body measurement traits, influenced by genes and environmental factors, play numerous important roles in the value assessment of productivity and economy. Growth differentiate factor 5 (GDF5), involved in the development and maintenance of bone and cartilage, is an important candidate gene for body measurement traits selection through marker-assisted selection (MAS). In this study, based on the PCR-RFLP technology, we discovered and evaluated the potential association of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (T586C in exon 1) of the bovine GDF5 gene with body measurement traits in 985 Bos taurus breed, 42 Bos indicus breed and 76 Bos indicus x Bos taurus individuals. As the SNP marker, there were the significant effects on the Body length (BL) in the Bos taurus (BT) and Bos indicus x Bos taurus (BMY) populations (P < 0.05). In BT population, animals with the genotype TT had lower mean values for BL and Hip width (HW) than these with the TC and CC genotype (P < 0.01). In BMY population, animals with the genotype TC had lower mean values for BL than these with the genotype CC (P < 0.05). These results suggest that the SNP of the GDF5 gene could be a very useful genetic marker for body measurement traits in the bovine reproduction and breeding.

19603057	Bayesian shrinkage mapping for multiple QTL in half-sib families. Recently, an effective Bayesian shrinkage estimation method has been proposed for mapping QTL in inbred line crosses. However, with regard to outbred populations,  such as half-sib populations with maternal information unavailable, it is not straightforward to utilize such a shrinkage estimation for QTL mapping. The reasons are: (1) the linkage phase of markers in the outbred population is usually unknown; and (2) only paternal genotypes can be used for inferring QTL genotypes of offspring. In this article, a novel Bayesian shrinkage method was proposed for mapping QTL under the half-sib design using a mixed model. A simulation study clearly demonstrated that the proposed method was powerful for detecting multiple QTL. In addition, we applied the proposed method to map QTL for economic traits in the Chinese dairy cattle population. Two or more novel QTL harbored in the chromosomal region were detected for each trait of interest, whereas only one QTL was found using traditional maximum likelihood analyses in our earlier studies. This further validated that our shrinkage estimation method  could perform well in empirical data analyses and had practical significance in the field of linkage studies for outbred populations.

19620688	Refined positioning of a quantitative trait locus affecting somatic cell score on chromosome 18 in the German Holstein using linkage disequilibrium. Combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis (LALD) was conducted to more accurately map a previously reported quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting somatic cell score on bovine chromosome 18. A grand-daughter design consisting of 6 German Holstein grandsire families with 1,054 progeny-tested genotyped sons was used in this study. Twenty microsatellite markers, 5 single nucleotide polymorphisms, and an erythrocyte antigen marker with an average marker spacing of 1.95 cM were analyzed along a chromosomal segment of 50.80 cM. Variance components were estimated and restricted maximum likelihood test statistics were  calculated at the midpoint of each marker interval. The test statistics calculated in single-QTL linkage analysis exceeded the genome-wide significance threshold at several putative QTL positions. Using LALD, we were successful in assigning a genome-wide significant QTL to a confidence interval of 10.8 cM between the markers ILSTS002 and BMS833. The QTL in this marker interval was estimated to be responsible for between 5.89 and 13.86% of the genetic variation  in somatic cell score. In contrast to the single-QTL linkage analysis model, LALD analyses with a 2-QTL model confirmed the position of one QTL, but gave no conclusive evidence for the existence or position of a second QTL. Ultimately, the QTL position was narrowed down considerably compared with previous results with a refined confidence interval of less than 11 cM.

19620692	Short communication: Effects of the progesterone receptor variants on fertility traits in cattle. The progesterone receptor (PGR) gene is a key factor in the initiation and maintenance of pregnancy and in embryo development. Currently, it is unknown what variants of the PGR gene are related to fertility traits in cattle. Identification of such variants would allow the implementation of marker-assisted selection in breeding schemes. The objective of this study was to investigate the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of PGR with fertility traits in Holstein dairy cattle. An in vitro fertilization system was used to maximize the efficiency of the identification of genetic factors affecting fertility. This in vitro fertilization system would allow the assessment of fertilization and embryonic survival rates independently of influences from the uterine environment. A total of 5,566 fertilization attempts were performed, and a total  of 3,679 embryos were produced using oocytes from 324 Holstein cows and semen from 10 Holstein bulls. Sequencing of pooled DNA samples from ovaries revealed an SNP (G/C) in intron 3 of PGR. A generalized linear model was used to analyze the  association of this SNP with fertilization and embryonic survival rates for each  ovary. Oocytes obtained from CC ovaries showed a 61% fertilization rate, compared with 68 and 69% for GC and GG ovaries, respectively. The survival rate of embryos produced from GG ovaries was 5 and 6% higher than that of GC and CC ovaries . These results indicate that the PGR SNP could be used in marker-assisted selection breeding programs in Holstein dairy cattle.

19630877	Estimation of genetic parameters and genome scan for 15 semen characteristics traits of Holstein bulls. A QTL detection experiment was performed in French dairy cattle to search for QTL related to male fertility. Ten families, involving a total of 515 bulls, were phenotyped for ejaculated volume and sperm concentration, number of spermatozoa,  motility, velocity, percentage of motile spermatozoa after thawing and abnormal spermatozoa. A set of 148 microsatellite markers were used to realize a genome scan. First, genetic parameters were estimated for all traits. Semen production traits were found to have moderate heritabilities (from 0.15 to 0.30) while some  of the semen quality traits such as motility had high heritabilities (close to 0.60). Genetic correlations among traits showed negative relationships between volume and concentration and between volume and most quality traits such as motility or abnormal sperm while correlations between concentration and these traits were rather favourable. Percentages of abnormal sperm were negatively related to quality traits, especially with motility and velocity of spermatozoa.  Three QTL related to abnormal sperm frequencies were significant at p < 0.01. In  total, 11 QTL (p < 0.05) were detected. However, the number of QTL detected was within the range of expected false positives. Because of the lack of power to find QTL in this design further analyses are required to confirm these QTL.

19641966	SNPs in the bovine IL-10 receptor are associated with somatic cell score in Canadian dairy bulls. Altering the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory responses can influence an animal's susceptibility to acute or chronic inflammatory disease; bovine mastitis is no exception. Genetic variation in the form of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) may alter the function and expression of genes that regulate inflammation, making them important candidates for defining an animal's risk of developing acute or chronic mastitis. The objective of the present study was to identify SNPs in genes that regulate anti-inflammatory responses and test their association with estimated breeding values (EBVs) for somatic cell score (SCS), a trait highly correlated with the incidence of mastitis. These genes included bovine interleukin-10 (IL-10) and its receptor (IL-10R), and transforming growth  factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) and its receptor (TGF-betaR). Sequencing-pooled DNA allowed for the identification of SNPs in IL-10 (n = 2), IL-10Ralpha (n = 6) and  beta (n = 2), and TGF-beta1 (n = 1). These SNPs were subsequently genotyped in a  cohort of Holstein (n = 500), Jersey (n = 83), and Guernsey (n = 50) bulls. Linear regression analysis identified significant SNP effects for IL-10Ralpha 1185C>T with SCS. Haplotype IL-10Ralpha AAT showed a significant effect on increasing SCS compared to the most common haplotype. The results presented here  indicate that SNPs in IL-10Ralpha may contribute to variation in the SCS of dairy cattle. Although functional studies are necessary to ascertain whether these SNPs are causal polymorphisms or merely in linkage with the true causal SNP(s), a selection program incorporating these markers could have a beneficial influence on the average SCS and productivity of a dairy herd.

19646150	A whole genome scan to map QTL for milk production traits and somatic cell score  in Canadian Holstein bulls. The detection and mapping of genetic markers linked to quantitative trait loci (QTL) can be utilized to enhance genetic improvement of livestock populations. With the completion of the bovine genome sequence assembly, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) assays spanning the whole bovine genome and research work on  large scale identification, validation and analysis of genotypic variation in cattle has become possible. The objective of the present study was to perform a whole genome scan to identify and map QTL affecting milk production traits and somatic cell scores using linkage disequilibrium (LD) regression and 1536 SNP markers. Three and 18 SNP were found to be associated with only milk yield (MY) at a genome and chromosome wise significance (p < 0.05) level respectively. Among the 21 significant SNP, 16 were in a region reported to have QTL for MY in other  dairy cattle populations and while the rest five were new QTL finding. Four SNP out of 21 are significant for the milk production traits (MY, fat yield, protein  yield (PY), and milk contents) in the present study. Six and nine SNP were associated with PY at a genome and chromosome wise significant (p < 0.05) level respectively. Three and 17 SNP were found to be associated with FY at a genome and chromosome wise significant (p < 0.05) level. Five and seven SNP were mapped  with somatic cell score at a genome and chromosome wise significant (p < 0.05) level respectively. The results of this study have revealed QTL for MY, PY, protein percentage, FY, fat percentage, somatic cell score and persistency of milk in the Canadian dairy cattle population. The chromosome regions identified in this study should be further investigated to potentially identify the causative mutations underlying the QTL.

19653884	Cross-breed comparisons identified a critical 591-kb region for bovine carcass weight QTL (CW-2) on chromosome 6 and the Ile-442-Met substitution in NCAPG as a  positional candidate. BACKGROUND: Growth-related traits have been mapped on bovine chromosome 6 (BTA 6) in various bovine breed populations. We previously mapped a significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) for carcass and body weight (CW-2) between 38 and  55 cM on BTA 6 using a Japanese Black half-sib family. Additional QTL mapping studies detected four QTL for body or carcass weight that overlapped with CW-2 in Japanese Black and Japanese Brown half-sib families. To map the region in greater detail, we applied cross-breed comparisons of haplotypes that have been shown to  be powerful in canine. RESULTS: We used 38 microsatellite markers to search for a shared Q (increasing carcass and/or body weight) haplotype within the 17-cM CW-2 region among five sires. Linkage disequilibrium mapping using maternal alleles of the offspring showed that an 815-kb shared Q haplotype was associated with body or carcass weight in both breeds. The addition of 43 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers narrowed the region to 591 kb containing 4 genes. The SNP changing Ile-442 to Met in NCAPG (chromosome condensation protein G) was significantly associated with carcass weight (p < 1.2 x 10-11) in a large Japanese Black population as well as in the five families. The Q allele of the SNP was also associated with a larger longissimus muscle area and thinner subcutaneous fat thickness in steers of all five families, indicating that the CW-2 locus is pleiotropic and favorable for marker-assisted selection of beef cattle. CONCLUSION: A 591-kb critical region for CW-2 was identified. The SNP changing Ile-442 to Met in NCAPG (chromosome condensation protein G) can be used as a positional candidate of CW-2 for marker-assisted selection.

19714484	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in bovine PRL gene and their associations with milk production traits in Chinese Holsteins. Prolactin (PRL) plays a crucial role in the initiation and maintenance of lactation in mammals. In this study, seven PCR fragments representing most important functional domains of PRL gene were screened for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in Chinese Holsteins by single-strand conformation polymorphisms and amplicons sequencing, and their genetic effects on milk production traits were evaluated. A total of four SNPs, including two in the promoter (-1043A>G and -402A>G), one in intron 1 (+2723C>T) and one in exon 4 (+8398G>A) were identified in PRL gene. Statistical results showed significant associations between the promoter genotypes and the milk performance traits in Chinese Holsteins. Cows with genotype P1-GG showed higher milk yields (P < 0.01), while cows with genotype P1-AA showed higher fat contents (P < 0.01). Haplotype analysis of two SNPs in promoter region revealed that the Hap(AG) was significantly associated with increased milk yields and Hap(AA) was associated with increased fat contents (P < 0.01). This is the second study reporting SNPs in the 5'-regulatory region of PRL gene, which interfere with milk production traits.

19714485	Mutations of MC4R gene and its association with economic traits in Qinchuan cattle. MC4R belongs to a seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptor which may regulate body composition and insulin action. Many mutations in the MC4R gene are associated with obesity, energy expenditure and serum triglyceride levels in human and animals. Six mutations in the MC4R gene were identified in our study (-293C>G, -193A>T, -192T>G, -129A>G, -84T>C and 1,069C>G). The -129A>G was significantly associated with live weight (LW) (P < 0.05), Cattle with the genotypes AG and GG had higher LW than genotype AA. The 1,069C>G was significantly associated with LW, carcass weight (CW), backfat thickness and marbling score (MS). Cattle with the genotype GG had higher LW, CW and MS than genotype CC; Cattle with the genotypes GG and CG had higher MS than CC. The results suggested that -129A>G and 1,069C>G SNP of the MC4R gene may be useful as a genetic marker for carcass and meat quality traits in Qinchuan cattle.

19719788	Effect of polymorphisms in the FASN, OLR1, PPARGC1A, PRL and STAT5A genes on bovine milk-fat composition. The aim of our study was to estimate effects of polymorphisms in the ATP-binding  cassette G2 (ABCG2), fatty acid synthase (FASN), oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), peroxysome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PPARGC1A), prolactin (PRL) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5A (STAT5A) genes on milk production traits and detailed milk-fat composition. Milk-fat composition phenotypes were available for 1905 Dutch Holstein-Friesian cows. First, the presence of each SNP in the Dutch Holstein-Friesian population was evaluated by direct sequencing of the PCR product surrounding the SNP in 22 proven Dutch Holstein-Friesian bulls. The ABCG2 SNP did not segregate in the bull population. Second, we genotyped the cows for the FASN(g.16024G>A), FASN(g.17924A>G), OLR1(g.8232C>A), PPARGC1A(c.1790+514G>A), PPARGC1A(c.1892+19G>A), PRL(g.8398G>A) and STAT5A(g.9501G>A) polymorphisms, and estimated genotype effects on milk production traits and milk-fat composition. FASN(g.17924A>G) and OLR(g.8232C>A) had a significant effect (P < 0.05) on milk-fat percentage. However, we were not able to confirm results reported in the literature that showed effects of all evaluated polymorphisms on milk-fat percentage or milk-fat yield. All polymorphisms showed significant effects (P < 0.05) on milk-fat composition. The polymorphisms in FASN and STAT5A, which had an effect on C14:0 and were located on chromosome 19, could not fully explain the quantitative trait locus for C14:0 that was previously detected on chromosome 19  in a genome-wide scan using linkage analysis.

19720859	Dissection of genetic factors modulating fetal growth in cattle indicates a substantial role of the non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G (NCAPG) gene. The increasing evidence of fetal developmental effects on postnatal life, the still unknown fetal growth mechanisms impairing offspring generated by somatic nuclear transfer techniques, and the impact on stillbirth and dystocia in conventional reproduction have generated increasing attention toward mammalian fetal growth. We identified a highly significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting fetal growth on bovine chromosome 6 in a specific resource population,  which was set up by consistent use of embryo transfer and foster mothers and, thus, enabled dissection of fetal-specific genetic components of fetal growth. Merging our data with results from other cattle populations differing in historical and geographical origin and with comparative data from human whole-genome association mapping suggests that a nonsynonymous polymorphism in the non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G (NCAPG) gene, NCAPG c.1326T>G, is the  potential cause of the identified QTL resulting in divergent bovine fetal growth. NCAPG gene expression data in fetal placentomes with different NCAPG c.1326T>G genotypes, which are in line with recent results about differential NCAPG expression in placentomes from studies on assisted reproduction techniques, indicate that the NCAPG locus may give valuable information on the specific mechanisms regulating fetal growth in mammals.

19725965	Identification of a two-marker-haplotype on Bos taurus autosome 18 associated with somatic cell score in German Holstein cattle. BACKGROUND: The somatic cell score (SCS) is implemented in routine sire evaluations in many countries as an indicator trait for udder health. Somatic cell score is highly correlated with clinical mastitis, and in the German Holstein population quantitative trait loci (QTL) for SCS have been repeatedly mapped on Bos taurus autosome 18 (BTA18). In the present study, we report a refined analysis of previously detected QTL regions on BTA18 with the aim of identifying marker and marker haplotypes in linkage disequilibrium with SCS. A combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium approach was implemented, and association analyses of marker genotypes and maternally inherited two-marker-haplotypes were conducted to identify marker and haplotypes in linkage disequilibrium with a locus affecting SCS in the German Holstein population. RESULTS: We detected a genome-wide significant QTL within marker interval 9 (HAMP_c.366+109G>A--BMS833) in the middle to telomeric region on BTA18 and a second putative QTL in marker interval 12-13 (BB710-PVRL2_c.392G>A). Association  analyses with genotypes of markers flanking the most likely QTL positions revealed the microsatellite marker BMS833 (interval 9) to be associated with a locus affecting SCS within the families investigated. A further analysis of maternally inherited two-marker haplotypes and effects of maternally inherited two-marker-interval gametes indicated haplotype 249-G in marker interval 12-13 (BB710-PVRL2_c.392G>A) to be associated with SCS in the German Holstein population. CONCLUSION: Our results confirmed previous QTL mapping results for SCS and support the hypothesis that more than one locus presumably affects udder health in the middle to telomeric region of BTA18. However, a subsequent investigation of the reported QTL regions is necessary to verify the two-QTL hypothesis and confirm the association of two-marker-haplotype 249-G in marker interval 12-13 (BB710-PVRL2_c.392G>A) with SCS. For this purpose, higher marker density and multiple-trait and multiple-QTL models are required to narrow down the position of the causal mutation or mutations affecting SCS in German Holstein cattle.

19728157	Novel SNPs of the bovine NUCB2 gene and their association with growth traits in three native Chinese cattle breeds. In this study, polymorphism in the exon 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of bovine NUCB2 gene was detected by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods in 686 individuals from three Chinese cattle breeds. Two haplotypes (M and N), three observed genotypes (MM, MN and NN) and two SNPs (NC_007313: g. 27451G>A, NC_007313: g. 27472T>C) were detected. The frequencies of haplotypes M and N in inland Chinese three breeds were 0.531-0.721 and 0.279-0.469 respectively. The studied showed that Nanyang, Jiaxian Red and Qinchuan cattle populations were in  Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at SNPs locus of NUCB2 gene (P > 0.05). Polymorphism of the NUCB2 gene was shown to be associated with growth traits in Qingchuan and  Nanyang cattle breed. The linkage of two mutant sites in the bovine NUCB2 gene had significant effects on body length, body weight, heart girth, and average daily gain at 24 months (P < 0.05). Results of this study suggested that the NUCB2-gene-specific SNP may be a useful marker for growth traits in future marker-assisted selection programmes in inland Chinese cattle.

19728158	Novel SNPs of the bovine GAD1/gad67 gene and their association with growth traits in three native Chinese cattle breeds. In this study, polymorphism in the exon 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of bovine GAD1 gene was  detected by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods in 726 individuals from three Chinese cattle breeds. Two haplotypes (T and C) and three observed genotypes (TT, TC, and CC) were detected. The result of DNA sequence showed one mutations (T12345C) by comparisons with NC_007300: g.12345T>C. The mutation was at the exon 3, and was identified a missense mutation Phe (TTT)>Leu (CTT) at position 51 (p.F51L). Polymorphism of the GAD1 gene was shown to be associated with growth traits in the Nanyang breed. The SNP in the bovine GAD1 gene had significant effects on body length, body weight, heart girth, and average daily gain at 24 months (P < 0.05). Therefore, these results suggest that the GAD1 gene is a strong candidate gene that affects growth traits in cattle.

19744142	Quantitative trait loci with effects on feed efficiency traits in Hereford x composite double backcross populations. Two half-sib families of backcross progeny were produced by mating F(1) Line 1 Hereford (L1) x composite gene combination (CGC) bulls with L1 and CGC cows. Feed intake and periodic weights were measured for 218 backcross progeny. These progenies were genotyped using 232 microsatellite markers that spanned the 29 BTA. Progeny from L1 and CGC females was analysed separately using composite interval mapping to find quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting daily dry matter intake (DMI), average daily gain (ADG), feed conversion (FCR) and residual feed intake (RFI). Results from both backcrosses were pooled to find additional QTL. In the backcross to L1, QTL were detected for RFI and DMI on BTA11, FCR on BTA16, and ADG on BTA9. In the backcross to CGC, QTL were detected for RFI on BTA10, FCR on BTA12 and 16 and ADG on BTA15 and 17. After pooling, QTL were detected for RFI on BTA 2, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13 and 16; for FCR on BTA 9, 12, 16, 17 and 21; for ADG on BTA 9, 14, 15, 17; and for DMI on BTA 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 20 and 23.

19747793	Plasma hormone and metabolite concentrations involved in the somatotropic axis of Japanese Black heifers in association with growth hormone gene polymorphism. Bovine growth hormone (bGH) gene polymorphism of leucine (Leu)-threonine (Thr) (allele A), valine (Val)-Thr (allele B), and Val-methionine (Met) (allele C) at codons 127 and 172 was shown to relate with carcass trait variations in Japanese  Black cattle. In this study, 10-mo-old Japanese Black heifers with growth hormone (GH) genotypes AA, AB, BB, AC, BC, and CC (N=141) were compared for basal GH, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), insulin, ghrelin, glucose, and nonesterified fatty acid (NEFA) concentrations. Growth hormone release was also measured as response to growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) (0.4 microg/kg body weight [BW]) using 18 heifers with GH genotypes AA, BB, and CC (n=6 for each group). The genotype AA heifers showed the greatest BW among genotypes (P<0.05).  Genotype AC, BC, and CC heifers showed greater GH concentrations than genotype AA, AB, or BB heifers, in which genotype CC heifers had the highest concentrations (P<0.05). However, IGF-1 concentrations did not significantly differ. The genotype AA and BB heifers had a greater GH release at 60 min following GHRH injection than did the genotype CC heifers. The area under the curve (AUC; P<0.07) and incremental area (IA; P<0.08) of GH responses to the GHRH challenge tended to be the highest in the genotype AA heifers and the lowest in the genotype CC heifers. In conclusion, GH gene polymorphism altered GH, which may have contributed to differences in BW and carcass traits among genotypes.

19749024	Whole genome single nucleotide polymorphism associations with feed intake and feed efficiency in beef cattle. Feed intake and efficiency are economically important traits because feed is the  greatest variable cost in beef production. Feed efficiency can be measured as residual feed intake (RFI), which is the difference between actual DMI of an animal and the expected DMI based on its BW and growth rate. Feed conversion ratio (FCR) is the inverse of gross feed efficiency and is the ratio of DMI to ADG. A total of 2,633 SNP across the 29 bovine autosomes were analyzed in 464 steers sired by Angus, Charolais, or Alberta Hybrid bulls for associations with RFI. A total of 150 SNP were associated with RFI at P < 0.05 of which 23 were significant at P < 0.01. Nine of the SNP pairs show high linkage disequilibrium (r(2) > 0.80), so only 1 of the SNP pairs was used in further multiple-marker analyses. Two methods were used to create a panel of SNP that were maximally informative for RFI based on the data. In the first method, 141 unique SNP were combined in a single multivariate model and a backward elimination model was used to drop SNP until all SNP left in the model were significant at P < 0.05. The SNP had greater effects when combined in the multivariate model than when tested individually. In the second method, the estimates from the 141 SNP were used to create a sequential molecular breeding value (MBV) according to the compound covariate prediction (CCP) procedure. The sequential MBV was built by adding the  estimated effects one at a time, but only keeping SNP effects in the sequential MBV if the test statistic and the proportion of variance explained were improved. Predictabilities of the 2 methods were compared by regressing RFI on a final MBV  created from SNP that remained in each analytical model. The MBV from the compound covariate prediction model produced an r(2) of 0.497, whereas the multivariate model MBV had a decreased r(2) of 0.416. The significant SNP were also tested for associations with DMI and FCR. The SNP showed different combinations of associations with the 4 traits, including some that were only associated with RFI. About 9.5% of the SNP from the 2 models were within 5 cM of  previously identified RFI QTL and pinpoint areas to further explore for positional candidate genes. In conclusion, this study has identified a panel of SNP with significant effects on RFI that need to be validated in an independent population and provides continued progress toward selecting markers for use in marker-assisted selection for feed efficiency in beef cattle.

19760096	Two novel SNPs in the coding region of the bovine PRDM16 gene and its associations with growth traits. As a zinc-finger protein, PR domain containing 16 (PRDM16) controls brown fat determination by stimulating brown fat-selective genes expression while suppressing the expression of genes selective for white fat cells, whose mutations were associated with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and leukemogenesis  in human and murine model of leukemia. To date, no polymorphisms of PRDM16 gene in bovine had been reported. Herein, PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods were employed to screen the genetic variation within PRDM16 gene in 1031 Chinese indigenous bovine. The results revealed two novel silent mutations: XM_001788152: m.1641T>C (547aa), 1881G>A (627aa). Hence, we described the PvuII and HaeIII forced PCR-RFLP methods for detecting these mutations, respectively. In the forced PCR-RFLP analysis with PvuII, the frequencies of bovine PRDM16-C allele varied from 0.044 to 0.506 in four Chinese native breeds. In the forced PCR-RFLP  analysis with HaeIII, the frequencies of bovine PRDM16-G allele were 0.474, 0.494, 0.576 and 0.906 for Jiaxian (JX), Nanyang (NY), Qinchuan (QC) and Chinese  Holstein (CH) population. Significant statistical differences between genotypic frequencies implied that both of the polymorphic loci were significantly associated with cattle breeds by the chi square test (chi2 = 190.058, P < 0.001 and chi2 = 118.239, P < 0.001 for PvuII; chi2 = 209.842, P < 0.001 and chi2 = 108.711, P < 0.001 for HaeIII). The associations of the PvuII and HaeIII forced PCR-RFLPs of bovine PRDM16 loci with growth traits were analyzed in Nanyang breed. The two SNPs were associated with body weight and average daily gain in Nanyang aged 12 months, individuals with genotype TT and AA showed significantly  better body weight (P < 0.05) and average daily gain (P < 0.01) at 12 months, respectively.

19765294	Osteopontin: an early innate immune marker of Escherichia coli mastitis harbors genetic polymorphisms with possible links with resistance to mastitis. BACKGROUND: Mastitis is the most important disease in dairy cows and it causes significant lost of profit to producers. Identification of the genes, and their variants, involved in innate immune responses is essential for the understanding  of this inflammatory disease and to identify potential genetic markers for resistance to mastitis. The progeny of dairy cows would benefit from receiving favourable alleles that support greater resistance to infection, thus reducing antibiotic use. This study aims to identify a key gene in the innate immune response to mastitis, led us to evaluate its genetic association with somatic cell score (SCS), which is an indicator of clinical mastitis, and to evaluate its impact on other traits related to milk production. RESULTS: The osteopontin transcript (SPP1) was identified in the somatic cells from cows experimentally infected with Escherichia coli. By selecting bulls with  extreme estimated breeding values (EBVs) for SCS, which is an indicator of mammary gland health, four DNA polymorphisms in the SPP1 genomic sequence were found. Statistical analysis revealed that the SNP SPP1c.-1301G>A has an impact on EBV for SCS (P < 0.001) Using an allele substitution model, SPP1c.-1251C>T, SPP1c.-430G>A, and SPP1c.*40A>C have an impact on SCS whereas SPP1c.-1301G>A has  an effect on the EBVs for milk yield (second and third lactations), fat and protein percentages (all three lactations). Analysis revealed statistically significant differences between haplotype groups at a comparison-wise level with  sire EBVS for SCS for the first (P = 0.012), second (P < 0.001), and third (P < 0.001) lactations. CONCLUSION: This study reports the link between DNA polymorphisms of SPP1, the number of milk immune cells and, potentially, the susceptibility to mastitis. These SNPs were identified by in silico search to be located in transcription factor recognition sites which factors are presumably involved in the Th1 immune  response and in the Th2 regulation pathway. Indeed, one SNP abolished the SP1 recognition site, whereas another SNP affected the transcription binding factor IKAROS. All together, these findings support the genetic potential of these variants in terms of selection for the improvement of mastitis resistance in dairy cows.

19781039	Identification of a 3.7-Mb region for a marbling QTL on bovine chromosome 4 by identical-by-descent and association analysis. QTL mapping for growth and carcass traits was performed using a paternal half-sib family composed of 325 Japanese Black cattle offspring. Nine QTL were detected at the 1% chromosome-wise significance level at a false discovery rate of less than  0.1. These included two QTL for marbling on BTA 4 and 18, two QTL for carcass weight on BTA 14 and 24, two QTL for longissimus muscle area on BTA 1 and 4, two  QTL for subcutaneous fat thickness on BTA 1 and 15 and one QTL for rib thickness  on BTA 6. Although the marbling QTL on BTA 4 has been replicated with significant linkages in two Japanese Black cattle sires, the three Q (more marbling) haplotypes, each inherited maternally, were apparently different. To compare the  three Q haplotypes in more detail, high-density microsatellite markers for the overlapping regions were developed within the 95% CIs (65 markers in 44-78 cM). A detailed haplotype comparison indicated that a small region (<3.7 Mb) around 46 cM was shared between the Qs of the two sires, whose dams were related. An association of this region with marbling was shown by a regression analysis using the local population, in which the two sires were produced and this was confirmed by an association study using a population collected throughout Japan. These results strongly suggest that the marbling QTL on BTA 4 is located in the 3.7-Mb  region at around 46 cM.

19781040	Effects of DGAT1 and GHR on milk yield and milk composition in the Chinese dairy  population. Previous studies have demonstrated that the p.Lys232Ala substitution in the acylCoA: diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1) gene and the p.Phe279Tyr mutation in the growth hormone receptor (GHR) gene are the causative quantitative trait loci underlying milk yield and composition on BTA14 and BTA20 respectively. To examine their applications in the genetic improvement of Chinese dairy cattle productivity, we herein investigated the effects of the DGAT1 p.Lys232Ala and GHR p.Phe279Tyr mutations on milk, fat and protein yield, as well as fat and protein  percentage in the milk of 1222 Holstein cows. Genotyping was performed using PCR-RFLP for DGAT1 or primer-introduced restriction analysis (PCR-PIRA) for GHR.  With a mixed animal model, the significant associations of the DGAT1 p.Lys232Ala  substitution with 305-day milk, fat and protein yield were identified (P = 0.0001). The DGAT1 allele that encode lysine at position 232 was associated with  increased 305-day milk fat yield, but with decreased 305-day milk and protein yield, whereas the GHR p.Phe279Tyr mutation was found to be significantly associated with protein percentage (P = 0.0014). The allele substitution effect of p.279Phe by p.279Tyr may lead to a significant increase in protein percentage. Our findings indicate that DGAT1 p.232Ala and GHR p.279Phe could be used to increase milk yield and protein yield of Chinese Holstein cows.

19785908	Association of polymorphisms in exons 2 and 10 of the insulin-like growth factor  2 ( IGF2) gene with milk production traits in Polish Holstein-Friesian cattle. Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) is considered to be a regulator of post-natal growth and differentiation of the mammary gland. In the present work, associations of two single nucleotide polymorphisms in the bovine IGF2 gene with  milk production traits were studied in dairy Holstein-Friesian cows: the already  described g.8656C>T transition in exon 2 (RFLP-BsrI) and the newly found g.24507G>T transversion in exon 10 (RFLP-HaeIII), found by sequencing 273-bp exon 10 of the IGF2 gene in six individuals. Associations were analysed individually and in combination with the multi-trait repeatability test-day animal model. The  CT/GT haplotype appeared to be associated with most of the milk traits studied (differences were significant at P < or = 0.001). The most frequent CT/GG haplotype seemed inferior to others in fat and protein content and daily yield of fat and protein but superior (together with the TT/GG genotype) when the daily milk yield is considered.

19793271	Confirmation and refinement of a QTL on BTA5 affecting milk production traits in  the Fleckvieh dual purpose cattle breed. We analysed a QTL affecting milk yield (MY), milk protein yield (PY) and milk fat yield (FY) in the dual purpose cattle breed Fleckvieh on BTA5. Twenty-six microsatellite markers covering 135 cM were selected to analyse nine half-sib families containing 605 sons in a granddaughter design. We thereby assigned two new markers to the public linkage map using the CRI-MAP program. Phenotypic records were daughter yield deviations (DYD) originating from the routinely performed genetic evaluations of breeding animals. To determine the position of the QTL, three different approaches were applied: interval mapping (IM), linkage  analysis by variance component analysis (LAVC), and combined linkage disequilibrium (LD) and linkage (LDL) analysis. All three methods mapped the QTL  in the same marker interval (BM2830-ETH152) with the greatest test-statistic value at 118, 119.33 and 119.33 cM respectively. The positive QTL allele simultaneously increases DYD in the first lactation by 272 kg milk, 7.1 kg milk protein and 7.0 kg milk fat. Although the mapping accuracy and the significance of a QTL effect increased from IM over LAVC to LDL, the confidence interval was large (13, 20 and 24 cM for FY, MY and PY respectively) for the positional cloning of the causal gene. The estimated averages of pair wise marker LD with a  distance <5 cM were low (0.107) and reflect the large effective population size of the Fleckvieh subpopulation analysed. This low level of LD suggests a need for increase in marker density in following fine mapping steps.

19816789	Molecular cloning of the HGD gene and association of SNPs with meat quality traits in Chinese red cattle. Homogentisate 1, 2 dioxygenase (HGD) is one of six enzymes required for the catabolism of the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine. Here we present the nucleotide sequence of transcripts of the bovine HGD gene. The full length cDNA of bovine HGD has been identified, encoding a deduced protein of 445  amino acids (Accession No. FJ515744). The bovine HGD gene comprises 14 exons and  13 introns. This is the first published cDNA bovine sequences that share high sequence similarity with other species. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that the bovine HGD transcript was mainly expressed in liver and kidney tissues. Nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified, five in the coding region and four intronic. Four of the SNPs change an amino acid in  the HGD protein sequence. Genotype and allelic frequencies were determined in Chinese red cattle breeds. Ten haplotypes were determined based upon the genotype of 9 SNPs. Moreover, for the first time an association was reported between HGD gene polymorphism and meat quality traits in Chinese red cattle (n = 224). Marker-trait association analyses showed that the HGD/PvuII genotypes showed a significant effect on meat cooking rate, muscle fiber diameter, and shear force (P < 0.05). The HGD DraIII genotypes showed a significant effect on muscle fiber  diameter, shear force, and drip loss (P < 0.05). The HGD/AluI genotypes showed a  significant effect on meat cooking rate, shear force, and drip loss (P < 0.05). The HGD/DraI genotypes showed a significant effect on meat cooking rate and shear force (P < 0.05). The HGD/EcoRV genotypes showed a significant effect on meat cooking rate, muscle fiber diameter, and shear force (P < 0.05). In all loci, no  statistically significant differences were observed for pHu (P > 0.05). This is the first incidence where polymorphisms of a bovine HGD gene have demonstrated a  correlation with meat traits in Chinese red cattle.

19820053	Assessment of DGAT1 and LEP gene polymorphisms in three Nelore (Bos indicus) lines selected for growth and their relationship with growth and carcass traits. The aim of this study was to analyze LEP and DGAT1 gene polymorphisms in 3 Nelore lines selected for growth and to evaluate their effects on growth and carcass traits. Traits analyzed were birth, weaning, and yearling weight, rump height, LM area, backfat thickness, and rump fat thickness obtained by ultrasound. Two SNP in the LEP gene [LEP 1620(A/G) and LEP 305(T/C)] and the K232A mutation in the DGAT1 gene were analyzed. The sample consisted of 357 Nelore heifers from 2 lines selected for yearling weight and a control line, established in 1980, at the Estao Experimental de Zootecnia de Sertozinho (Sertozinho, Brazil). Three genotypes were obtained for each marker. Differences in allele frequencies among  the 3 lines were only observed for the DGAT1 K232A polymorphism, with the frequency of the A allele being greater in the control line than in the selected  lines. The DGAT1 K232A mutation was associated only with rump height, whereas LEP 1620(A/G) was associated with weaning weight and LEP 305(T/C) with birth weight and backfat thickness. However, more studies, with larger data sets, are necessary before these makers can be used for marker-assisted selection.

19820062	The effect of variation at the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C gene on intramuscular fat percent and marbling score in Australian cattle. Variation at the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C (RORC) gene was previously associated with marbling score in a large sample of Australian taurine feedlot cattle of Angus and Shorthorn breeds. The T allele at the SNP RORC:g.3290T > G increased marbling score in Angus and Shorthorn cattle. We genotyped this SNP in an independent sample of 2,741 Australian cattle of Angus,  Brahman, and Hereford breeds, and tested the association of this SNP with marbling score in all animals and with intramuscular fat (IMF) measurements in 2,104 animals. We found an allele frequency of the G allele of p(G) = 0.57 in Angus, p(G) = 0.09 in Hereford, and p(G) = 0.64 in Brahman. The regression of marbling score against number of copies of the G allele was significant (P = 0.033) in the combined sample after accounting for ancestry, breed, and the contemporary group structure of the data. All breeds had the same favorable homozygote; the regression on alleles showed a trend in Angus and Brahman cattle  (P < 0.1), but not in Hereford cattle (P = 0.912). The regression of IMF against  number of copies of the G allele was significant (P = 0.018) after accounting for ancestry, breed, and contemporary group structure. All breeds had the same favorable homozygote and the regression on alleles was significant (P = 0.024) in the Angus breed. In all breeds tested in this study, the T allele increased both  marbling score and IMF. This polymorphism explained 0.3% of the phenotypic variance for IMF in this sample.

19841231	Overlapping chromosomal regions for fertility traits and production traits in the Danish Holstein population. Before implementing selection based on quantitative trait loci (QTL) for fertility, it is important to determine the existence of correlated effects between the fertility QTL and QTL with effects on production traits. When a QTL is detected for a trait that is a composite of subtraits, it is of interest to validate which of the subtraits are affected by the QTL. Phenotypic and marker data were collected from 34 grandsire families from the Danish Holstein population. First, the trait data for "fertility treatments" were separated into  their underlying subtraits: uterine infections, antibiotics placed in the placenta, and abortions. In addition, retained placenta was selected for analysis because it is related to uterine infections. A genome scan was performed using 416 microsatellite markers for the fertility treatment subtraits and retained placenta, and an additional genome scan for milk production traits conditional on the QTL regions for the subtraits and retained placenta was conducted. Second, we selected 24 genomic regions harboring QTL for fertility traits from a previous study. A QTL scan for milk production traits conditional on the selected regions  was conducted. We found that 16 selected genomic regions containing a QTL for fertility (including the fertility treatment subtraits and retained placenta) also harbored QTL for milk yield or milk composition traits. Furthermore, 12 QTL  regions corresponding to 9 different fertility traits (including the fertility treatment subtraits) did not harbor a QTL for milk production or milk composition traits; that is, the region was specific for the fertility trait. The genome scan for the fertility treatment subtraits did not correspond to the QTL found for fertility treatments. No QTL were detected for the subtrait abortion, however genome scans for retained placenta revealed 4 different QTL.

19841232	Effects of milk fat composition, DGAT1, and SCD1 on fertility traits in Dutch Holstein cattle. Recently, selective breeding was proposed as a means of changing the fatty acid composition of milk to improve its nutritional quality. Before implementing such  breeding objectives, effects on other economically important traits should be investigated. The objectives of this study were to examine 1) the effect of milk  fat composition, and 2) the effect of polymorphisms of DGAT1 and SCD1 genes on female fertility in commercial Dutch Holstein-Friesian cattle. Data on 1,745 first-lactation cows were analyzed by fitting linear mixed models. We found that  higher concentrations of trans fatty acids within total milk fat negatively affected reproductive performance. Furthermore, results suggested a potential effect of the DGAT1 polymorphism on nonreturn rates for insemination 28 and 56 d  after the first service. Our results can be used to assess the correlated effects of breeding for improved milk fat composition on reproduction, thereby allowing for better evaluation of breeding programs before implementation.

19912419	Need for sharp phenotypes in QTL detection for calving traits in dairy cattle. The aim of the study was to investigate whether parity-specific phenotypes provide a clearer picture of quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting calving traits in German Holsteins than breeding values estimated across parities. In experiment I, approximate daughter yield deviations were calculated by applying a univariate sire model assuming unrelated sires used as phenotypes in a QTL mapping study. These results were compared with those obtained using deregressed  estimated breeding values obtained from the routine German sire evaluation (experiment II). In experiment I, 17 chromosome-wise significant QTL were found for the first parity, but only 12 for the second parity. Only three QTL for maternal stillbirth, located on BTA7, 15 and 23, showed an experiment-wise significance. Experiment II revealed 15 chromosome-wise significant QTL. The results differed markedly between first and second parity within experiment I, as well as between experiment I and II. The present study showed that parity-specific daughter yield deviations are beneficial for mapping QTL for calving traits. Furthermore, it is expected that the use of sharper phenotypes will also be advantageous for QTL fine mapping and the identification of candidate genes.

19923622	Effects of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) genes STAT1 and STAT3 genotypic combinations on fertilization and embryonic survival rates in Holstein cattle. Infertility is a major cause of dairy cow culling and economic loss. Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins are transcription factors that play an important role in fertility and early embryonic development, among many other functions. Previous studies have reported the association of several genes from the JAK/STAT signaling pathway with fertility traits in cattle. The STAT1 and STAT3 genes are members of this pathway and are known to interact with each other by forming a heterodimer complex that enters the nucleus and controls expression of specific genes. Thus, the objective of this study was  to investigate the effects of the interactions between polymorphisms in these genes on fertilization and early embryonic survival rates using an in vitro fertilization system. A total of 7,519 oocytes, collected from 445 ovaries, were  exposed to sperm and a total of 5,075 embryos were produced. Fertilization rate was calculated as the number of cleaved embryos at 48 h post-fertilization out of the total number of oocytes exposed to sperm. Early embryonic survival rate of embryos was calculated as the number of blastocysts on d 7 of development out of  the total number of embryos cultured. Effects of ovary genotypes on fertilization and early embryonic survival rates were evaluated. Single-SNP analysis revealed a statistically significant association between SNP25402 in STAT3 and fertilization rate. Oocytes produced from ovaries with AA genotype showed a 0.701 fertilization rate versus 0.666 and 0.663 for oocytes produced from AC and CC ovaries, respectively. The interaction between STAT3 SNP (SNP19069/SNP25402) was highly significant for survival rate but not for fertilization rate. Also, the interaction between STAT1 SNP and SNP19069 was highly significant for survival rate. Genotype combinations found to promote fertilization and embryonic survival could be incorporated into breeding programs aimed at improving fertility performance in dairy cattle.

19932461	Fine mapping quantitative trait loci affecting milk production traits on bovine chromosome 6 in a Chinese Holstein population. To fine map the previously detected quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting milk production traits on bovine chromosome 6 (BTA6), 15 microsatellite markers situated within an interval of 14.3 cM spanning from BMS690 to BM4528 were selected and 918 daughters of 8 sires were genotyped. Two mapping approaches, haplotype sharing based LD mapping and single marker regression mapping, were used to analyze the data. Both approaches revealed a quantitative trait locus (QTL) with significant effects on milk yield, fat yield and protein yield located in the segment flanked by markers BMS483 and MNB209, which spans a genetic distance of 0.6 cM and a physical distance of 1.5 Mb. In addition, the single marker regression mapping also revealed a QTL affecting fat percentage and protein percentage at marker DIK2291. Our fine mapping work will facilitate the cloning of candidate genes underlying the QTLs for milk production traits.

19932462	Genome scan of pigmentation traits in Friesian-Jersey crossbred cattle. Pigmentation traits expressed in animals are visual characteristics that allow us to distinguish between breeds and between strains within breed. The objective of  this study was to map quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting the pigmentation traits in approximately 800 F(2) grand daughter dairy cattle from a Holstein-Friesian and Jersey cross breed cattle. Traits analyzed included pigmentation phenotypes on the body, teat and hoop. The phenoypes were collected  from digital photos or visual inspection of live animals. QTL mapping was implemented using half-sib and line-of-descent inheritance models. Our analysis initially detected a number of significant QTLs on chromosomes: 2, 6, 13, 15, 18  and 22. The significant QTLs were divided into two groups: one group influencing  the pigmentation color and the other group affecting the absence or level of pigmentation. The most significant QTL peaks were observed on Bovine taurus autosome 18 (BTA18) close to melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) for the color traits, on BTA6 close to the receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) and BTA22 close to microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) gene for the spotting traits. Association studies were conducted for candidate regions or genes known to affect pigmentation in dairy cattle.

19937580	Association of single nucleotide polymorphisms with carcass traits in Nellore cattle. The association between two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), T945M and UCP1SNP1, with hot carcass weight (HCW, kg, N = 618), longissimus dorsi muscle area (REA, cm(2), N = 633), and backfat thickness (BF, mm, N = 625), measured in  Nellore cattle in Brazil, was evaluated. Likelihood ratio tests were used to evaluate reduced (fixed effects of general mean, contemporary group, yearling weight, age at slaughter, and random effect of infinitesimal genetic value) and full model (reduced model effects plus quantitative trait locus effects). Additive and dominance effects were tested for each SNP. Genotypic and gene frequencies were also obtained for the SNPs and a descriptive phenotype analysis  was made. Mean values for HCW, REA and BF were equal to 288.13 +/- 0.55 kg, 73.14 +/- 0.27 cm(2), and 4.28 +/- 0.07 mm, respectively; the coefficients of variation were 4.74, 9.24, and 42.43%, respectively. Gene frequencies for T945M and UCP1SNP1 were f(C) = 0.89, f(T) = 0.11, f(C) = 0.81, and f(G) = 0.19. The SNP T945M had a genotypic frequency of only three animals for TT genotype. Additive effects were observed for T945M on REA and BF, while UCP1SNP1 affected HCW and BF. Based on the significant additive effects of the SNPs and the gene frequencies that we found, we can expect genetic gains with marker assisted selection.

19966157	Effect of breed body size and the muscular hypertrophy gene in the production and carcass traits of concentrate-finished yearling bulls. To examine the extent of the effect of muscular hypertrophy character in beef of  northern-Spanish breeds, animal performance and carcass characteristics of 152 finishing steers from 5 genotypes were studied: 32 yearling bulls from a rustic Asturiana de la Montaa (AM) breed, 96 yearling bulls from Asturiana de los Valles (AV) breed, divided in 3 groups depending on the presence of the gene responsible for double-muscling (i.e., 32 AV mh/mh, 32 AV mh/+, 32 AV +/+), and 24 yearling bulls from AM x AV cross were used. Each genotype was composed of 8 animals per year (4 animals per pen) for 4 yr, except for the AM x AV genotype, which was only evaluated in the last 3 yr of the experiment. All animals were fed indoors with concentrate meal and barley straw ad libitum. Average daily gains in AV animals (1.41 kg/d) were greater (P < 0.01) than in AM (1.12 kg/d), whereas AM x AV were intermediate (1.29 kg/d) to these. No significant differences (P = 0.604) in ADG were found among the 3 AV genotypes. Longer fattening periods (P <  0.001) were taken for AM animals to reach acceptable BW at slaughter. Double-muscled animals (AV mh/mh) were found to have the best feed efficiencies when expressed as G:F (P < 0.001). However, residual feed intake calculated on a  daily basis showed a greater efficiency in AV mh/mh and AM than in other genotypes. Carcasses from double-muscled animals had greater BW, yield, conformation and compactness index, and less fat cover than the other genotypes (P < 0.001). Carcasses from AM breed were the lightest and had the worst conformation, whereas those from AM x AV generally presented intermediate characteristics between AV and AM. Double-muscled animals had the greatest LM weight and area. The sixth-rib dissection revealed a greater percentage of muscle (84.6%) and decreased percentages of subcutaneous fat (1.1%), intermuscular fat (4.7%), bone (8.5%), and other tissues (1.2%) in AV mh/mh compared with other genotypes. Water-holding capacity was greatest in AM and least in AV mh/mh. In conclusion, double-muscled AV bulls would provide the greatest economic returns at intensive feeding systems because of their greater efficiency, reduced feeding costs, greater carcass weight and conformation, and greater lean yields, though some LM characteristics (reduced fat content and water-holding capacity) could negatively affect the sensory attributes of the meat compared with other genotypes with greater fatness.

19966162	The two mutations, Q204X and nt821, of the myostatin gene affect carcass and meat quality in young heterozygous bulls of French beef breeds. The availability of genetic tests to detect different mutations in the myostatin  gene allows the identification of heterozygous animals and would warrant the superiority of these animals for slaughter performance if this superiority is confirmed. Thus, 2 mutations of this gene, Q204X and nt821, were studied in 3 French beef breeds in the program Qualvigne. This work was done with 1,114 Charolais, 1,254 Limousin, and 981 Blonde d'Aquitaine young bulls from, respectively, 48, 36, and 30 sires and slaughtered from 2004 to 2006. In addition to the usual carcass traits recorded at slaughter (e.g., carcass yield, muscle score), carcass composition was estimated by weighing internal fat and dissecting the 6th rib. The muscle characteristic traits analyzed were lipid and collagen contents, muscle fiber section area, and pH. Regarding meat quality, sensory qualities of meat samples were evaluated by a taste panel, and Warner-Bratzler shear force was measured. Deoxyribonucleic acid was extracted from the blood samples of all calves, the blood samples of 78% of the dams, and the blood or semen samples of all the sires. Genotypes were determined for 2 disruptive mutations, Q204X and nt821. Analyses were conducted by breed. The superiority of  carcass traits of calves carrying one copy of the mutated allele (Q204X or nt821) over noncarrier animals was approximately +1 SD in the Charolais and Limousin breeds but was not significant in the Blonde d'Aquitaine. In the Charolais breed, for which the frequency was the greatest (7%), young bulls carrying the Q204X mutation presented a carcass with less fat, less intramuscular fat and collagen contents, and a clearer and more tender meat than those of homozygous-normal cattle. The meat of these animals also had slightly less flavor. Also in the Charolais breed, 13 of 48 sires were heterozygous. For each sire, the substitution effect of the wild allele by the mutant allele was approximately +1  SD for carcass conformation and yield, showing that the estimate of the substitution effect was independent of family structure, as it ought to be for a  causal mutation. These results illustrate the challenge of using genetic tests to detect animals with the genetic potential for greater grades of carcasses and meat quality.

19966163	Genome-wide association study of growth in crossbred beef cattle. Chromosomal regions harboring variation affecting cattle birth weight and BW gain to 1 yr of age were identified by marker association using the highly parallel BovineSNP50 BeadChip (50K) assay composed of 54,001 individual SNP. Genotypes were obtained from progeny (F(1); 590 steers) and 2-, 3-, and 4-breed cross grandprogeny (F(1)(2) = F(1) x F(1); 1,306 steers and 707 females) of 150 AI sires representing 7 breeds (22 sires per breed; Angus, Charolais, Gelbvieh, Hereford, Limousin, Red Angus, and Simmental). Genotypes and birth, weaning, and  yearling BW records were used in whole-genome association analyses to estimate effects of individual SNP on growth. Traits analyzed included growth component traits: birth weight (BWT), 205-d adjusted birth to weaning BW gain (WG), 160-d adjusted postweaning BW gain (PWG); cumulative traits: 205-d adjusted weaning weight (WW = BWT + WG) and 365-d adjusted yearling weight (YW = BWT + WG + PWG);  and indexes of relative differences between postnatal growth and birth weight. Modeled fixed effects included additive effects of calf and dam SNP genotype, year-sex-management contemporary groups, and covariates for calf and dam breed composition and heterosis. Direct and maternal additive polygenic effects and maternal permanent environment effects were random. Missing genotypes, including  50K genotypes of most dams, were approximated with a single-locus BLUP procedure  from pedigree relationships and known 50K genotypes. Various association criteria were applied: stringent tests to account for multiple testing but with limited power to detect associations with small effects, and relaxed nominal P that may detect SNP associated with small effects but include excessive false positive associations. Genomic locations of the 231 SNP meeting stringent criteria generally coincided with described previously QTL affecting growth traits. The 12,425 SNP satisfying relaxed tests were located throughout the genome. Most SNP  associated with BWT and postnatal growth affected components in the same direction, although detection of SNP associated with one component independent of others presents a possible opportunity for SNP-assisted selection to increase postnatal growth relative to BWT.

19968639	Sequence variants in the bovine gonadotrophin releasing hormone receptor gene and their associations with fertility. Seven sequence variants (SVs) have been identified in exon 1 and in the promoter  region upstream of the bovine gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor gene, at nucleotides g.-331A>G, g.-108T>C, g.+206G>A, g.+260C>T, g.+341C>T, g.+383C>T and g.+410C>T relative to the translation start site. The SVs at nucleotides g.-108, g.260, g.341 and g.410 and those at g.206 and g.383 formed two groups with complete linkage disequilibrium within groups, but incomplete linkage disequilibrium between groups, and none of the SVs altered receptor amino acid sequence. The g.-108T>C allelic variants were associated with an approximately 0.4 day reduction in predicted transmitting ability for days to first service. None of the allelic variants affected the pattern of circulating LH following administration of GnRH. The g.260C>T alteration introduced a new transcription factor binding site in a region of DNA with relatively low nucleosome formation potential. The data suggest that selection for animals carrying the g.-108T>C group of alterations will improve fertility in the dairy cow.

19968646	A genome wide association study for QTL affecting direct and maternal effects of  stillbirth and dystocia in cattle. Dystocia and stillbirth are significant causes of female and neonatal death in many species and there is evidence for a genetic component to both traits. Identifying causal mutations affecting these traits through genome wide association studies could reveal the genetic pathways involved and will be a step towards targeted interventions. Norwegian Red cattle are an ideal model breed for such studies as very large numbers of records are available. We conducted a genome wide association study for direct and maternal effects of dystocia and stillbirth using almost 1 million records of these traits. Genotyping costs were  minimized by genotyping the sires of the recorded cows, and using daughter averages as phenotypes. A dense marker map containing 17,343 single nucleotide polymorphisms covering all autosomal chromosomes was utilized. The genotyped sires were assigned to one of two groups in an attempt to ensure independence between the groups. Associations were only considered validated if they occurred  in both groups. Strong associations were found and validated on chromosomes 4, 5, 6, 9, 12, 20, 22 and 28. The QTL region on chromosome 6 was refined using LDLA analysis. The results showed that this chromosome most probably contains two QTL  for direct effect on dystocia and one for direct effect on stillbirth. Several candidate genes may be identified close to these QTL. Of these, a cluster of genes expected to affect bone and cartilage formation (i.e. SPP1, IBSP and MEPE)  are of particular interest and we suggest that these genes are screened in candidate gene studies for dystocia and stillbirth in cattle as well as other species.

19968649	Genetic variation in the beta, beta-carotene-9', 10'-dioxygenase gene and association with fat colour in bovine adipose tissue and milk. beta, beta-carotene-9', 10'-dioxygenase (BCO2) plays a role in cleaving beta-carotene eccentrically, and may be involved in the control of adipose and milk colour in cattle. The bovine BCO2 gene was sequenced as a potential candidate gene for a beef fat colour QTL on chromosome (BTA) 15. A single nucleotide base change located in exon 3 causes the substitution of a stop codon  (encoded by the A allele) for tryptophan(80) (encoded by the G allele) (c. 240G>A, p.Trp80stop, referred to herein as SNP W80X). Association analysis showed significant differences in subcutaneous fat colour and beta-carotene concentration amongst cattle with different BCO2 genotypes. Animals with the BCO2 AA genotype had more yellow beef fat and a higher beta-carotene concentration in  adipose tissues than those with the GA or GG genotype. QTL mapping analysis with  the BCO2 SNP W80X fitted as a fixed effect confirmed that this SNP is likely to represent the quantitative trait nucleotide (QTN) for the fat colour-related traits on BTA 15. Moreover, animals with the AA genotype had yellower milk colour and a higher concentration of beta-carotene in the milk.

20002363	Associations of polymorphisms in the promoter I of bovine acetyl-CoA carboxylase-alpha gene with beef fatty acid composition. The objectives of this study were to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoter I (PI) region of the bovine acetyl-CoA carboxylase-alpha (ACACA) gene and to evaluate the extent to which they were associated with lipid-related traits. Eight novel SNPs were identified, which were AJ276223:g.2064T>A (SNP1), g.2155C>T (SNP2), g.2203G>T (SNP3), g.2268T>C (SNP4),  g.2274G>A (SNP5), g.2340A>G (SNP6), g.2350T>C (SNP7) and g.2370A>G (SNP8). Complete linkage disequilibrium was observed among SNP1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8. Phenotypic data were collected from 573 cross-bred steers with six sire breeds, including Hereford, Angus, Brangus, Beefmaster, Bonsmara and Romosinuano. The genotypes of SNP1/2/4/5/6/8 were significantly associated with adjusted backfat thickness. The genotypes of SNP3 were significantly associated with triacylglycerol (TAG) content and fatty acid composition of longissimus dorsi muscle (LM) in Brangus-, Romosinuano- and Bonsmara-sired cattle. Cattle with g.2203GG genotype had greater concentrations of TAG, total lipid, total saturated fatty acid and total monounsaturated fatty acid than did cattle with g.2203GT genotype. The genotypes of SNP7 were significantly associated with fatty acid composition of LM. Cattle with genotype g.2350TC had greater amounts of several fatty acids in LM than did cattle with genotype g.2350CC. Our results suggested that the SNPs in the PI region of ACACA gene are associated with variations in the fatty acid contents in LM.

20005587	Susceptibility to paratuberculosis infection in cattle is associated with single  nucleotide polymorphisms in Toll-like receptor 2 which modulate immune responses  against Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis. Paratuberculosis is a chronic intestinal infection in ruminants, caused by Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (Map). To study the role of host  genetics in disease susceptibility, the Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) gene, selected based on its potential role in immunity to mycobacterial infections, was analyzed for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and their potential association with disease. For SNP discovery and to study SNP association with disease, a case-control study including 24 cows from farms with paratuberculosis  was conducted. Sequence analysis of the TLR2 genes from 12 paratuberculosis-infected animals and 12 age-matched healthy herd mates revealed  21 different SNP. The TLR2-1903 T/C SNP was significantly associated with resistance to Map. This and four additional TLR2 SNP were studied in a subsequent observational field study with 553 cows from farms with paratuberculosis. The allelic distribution of the TLR2-1903 T/C SNP was confirmed to be significantly different between the infected and non-infected animals. For the TLR2-1903 T/C SNP the odds ratio was calculated, and similar to the dominance model in the association study, the CT and CC genotypes were compared to the TT genotype. Cows with the TLR2-1903 T/C mutation (i.e., the CT and CC genotypes) were at 1.7 (95%  CI: 1.2, 2.8) times the odds of being Map-infected compared to cows with the TT genotype. In in vitro functional assays, monocyte-derived macrophages from animals with a TLR2-1903 TT genotype produced more IL12p40 and IL1beta when stimulated with Map compared to cells derived from TLR2-1903 CT and CC genotypes. Also, T cell proliferative responses to mycobacterial antigens were higher in animals with a TLR2-1903 TT genotype. In conclusion, we have found a significant  association between SNP TLR2-1903 T/C in the bovine TLR2 gene and bovine paratuberculosis infection. This SNP and other genetic markers could be useful in marker-assisted breeding strategies as an additional tool in paratuberculosis control strategies. In addition, the functional studies suggest that genetic polymorphisms in bovine TLR2 which result in higher macrophage activity may contribute to enhanced T cell activation and a lower susceptibility to paratuberculosis in cattle.

20059932	Polymorphisms in the bovine leptin gene associated with perinatal mortality in Holstein-Friesian heifers. Leptin is an important regulator of fetal and placental growth. This study evaluated the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the leptin  gene with perinatal mortality (stillbirths and mortality within 24h of parturition) in 385 Holstein-Friesian heifers on 18 dairy farms in the United Kingdom. The 3 SNP evaluated were exon 2FB, UASMS1, and UASMS2. The mean age at first calving was 27.0+/-0.2 mo. Associations between each SNP and perinatal mortality (calf alive or dead) were tested using a generalized linear model that  included herd-year-season, calf sex, age at first calving, and age and pedigree of the dam. The overall level of perinatal mortality in the population was 16.9%, with significant allelic substitution effects for exon 2FB and UASMS1. These 2 SNP were in close linkage disequilibrium with each other (r(2)=0.98) but not with UASMS2 (r(2)=0.10). For exon 2FB, perinatal mortality was similar between heifers carrying the CT and TT alleles (20%), but was higher than in heifers carrying the CC allele (11%). For UASMS1, mortality was 21% with the CC and CT alleles but only 10% with the TT allele. No associations of perinatal mortality with SNP were found in the UASMS2 data set, possibly influenced by the low frequency (2%) of the TT genotype. No significant effects of herd-year-season, age at first calving, or calf sex were found. In conclusion, polymorphisms in the leptin gene  were associated with 2-fold differences in perinatal mortality in dairy heifers.

20060464	A principal component regression based genome wide analysis approach reveals the  presence of a novel QTL on BTA7 for MAP resistance in holstein cattle. Bovine Johne's disease (JD), caused by Mycobacterium avium spp. paratuberculosis  (MAP), causes significant losses to the dairy and beef cattle industries. Effective vaccination or therapeutic strategies against this disease are currently unavailable and infected animals either get culled or die due to clinical disease. An alternative strategy to manage the disease is to selectively breed animals with enhanced resistance to MAP infection. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify genetic loci putatively associated with MAP infection in a resource population consisting of Holstein cattle using a genome-wide association approach. The BovineSNP50 BeadChip, containing 54,001 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), was used to genotype 232 animals with known MAP infection status. Since, traditional case-control analytical techniques are based on single-marker analysis and do not account for the existence of linkage disequilibrium (LD) between markers, we used a novel principal component  regression approach, where each SNP was fit in a logistic regression model, along with principal components of other SNPs on the same chromosome showing association with the trait, as covariates. Such an approach allowed us to account for the LD that exists between multiple markers showing an association on the same chromosome. Our analysis revealed the presence of at least 12 genomic regions on BTA1, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 14 that were associated with the MAP infection status of our resource population. A brief description of these genomic regions, and a discussion of the analysis used in this study, have been presented.

20079508	The bovine annexin 9 gene (ANXA9) is significantly associated with milk-fat yield in a Spanish Holstein-Friesian population. On the basis of QTL studies for milk-fat yield trait on BTA3, annexin 9 protein (ANXA9), fatty acid transport protein type 3 (SLC27A3) and diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) were selected as candidate genes. Three different single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of bovine ANXA9, SLC27A3 and DGAT1 genes have been tested in a selective genotyping design for milk-fat yield. Significant allele frequency differences were found for ANXA9 (p=0.02), in Holstein-Friesian  animals with high and low breeding values for milk-fat yield. Regression analysis also showed a significant effect (p=0.0207) between estimated breeding values (EBVs) for fat milk content and ANXA9 polymorphism. So ANXA9 gene falls into a significant quantitative trait loci interval for milk-fat yield that was previously reported on bovine chromosome 3 in other dairy populations. Our results suggest that the ANXA9 gene polymorphism or a linked segregating QTL contributes to variation in milk-fat yield.

20105547	Diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1, and sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 gene polymorphisms and milk fatty acid composition in Italian Brown cattle. Several lipogenic genes have been shown to have effects on lipid metabolism: stearoyl CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) catalyzes the desaturation of several fatty acids (FA) in the cis-Delta(9) position in mammary glands of ruminant animals, diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) is a key enzyme in triacylglycerol synthesis in the mammary gland, and sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP-1) is a transcription factor that regulates expression levels of the SCD1  gene and other genes relevant to lipid and FA metabolism in adipose tissue and mammary gland. In this work, 351 Italian Brown cows were genotyped for polymorphisms in the SCD1, SREBP-1, and DGAT1 genes to reveal the allelic distribution in the population. Subsequently, effects on individual milk FA composition and on cis-9 unsaturated/saturated FA ratios, a proxy of mammary stearoyl CoA desaturase activity, were investigated. The genotypes of SCD1 (A293V) and DGAT1 (K232A) were determined by an approach based on the ligation detection reaction and a universal array, whereas the genotype of SREBP-1 (84-bp  insertion-deletion) was revealed by PCR amplification of intron 5. The genotype analysis showed an unbalanced distribution of alleles within all genes, being the allele with higher gene frequency at 82, 84, and 98% for SCD1, SREBP-1, and DGAT1, respectively. Significant associations between SCD1 and DGAT1 polymorphisms and milk FA composition were found, whereas SREBP-1 polymorphism was not associated with milk FA composition. In particular, SCD1 showed significant association with C14:1 cis-9 and C14:1 cis-9/C14:0, which is considered the best proxy of the desaturation activity in mammary gland. The DGAT1 polymorphism had the strongest association with milk FA composition, which  confirmed the key role of DGAT1 in lipid metabolism of mammary gland. However, the unbalanced distribution of alleles in all polymorphisms investigated suggested that the size of population should be increased to confirm the results  of the present study.

20140707	Polymorphisms in the bovine ghrelin precursor (GHRL) and Syndecan-1 (SDC1) genes  that are associated with growth traits in cattle. Transgenically expressed Syndecan-1 was found in the hypothalamic nuclei that control energy balance, and was associated with maturity-onset obesity, while ghrelin has been shown to play important roles in the control of food intake, gastric acid secretion, energy homeostasis, and glucose and lipid metabolism. However, the roles of genetic variations of Syndecan-1 and ghrelin on growth trait have few been reported in cattle. Herein, five Chinese cattle breeds were analyzed by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods. The bovine ghrelin gene showed eleven SNPs g.[267G>A, 271G>A, 290C>T, 326A>G, 327T>C, 420C>A, 569A>G, 945C>T, 993C>T, 4491A>G, 4644G>A] and three SNPs g.[420C>A, 569 A>G, 945C>T] were firstly detected in cattle. The bovine Syndecan-1 gene showed two SNPs. One SNP showed a  transition C>G at position 21514, resulting in a synonymous mutation p.G(GGC)169G(GGG) and another showed a transversion C>T at position 22591, resulting in a synonymous mutation p.D(GAC)283D(GAT). In ghrelin gene, no significant associations were revealed between any variant sites and body weight, average daily gain, body sizes for different growth periods (6, 12, 18, and 24 months old), as well as for the milk yield at 305 days, milk protein rate and milk fat percentage. However, the polymorphism of Syndecan-1 gene was significantly associated with bovine birth weight and body length. Hence, we first suggested that Syndecan-1 gene could be regarded as molecular marker for superior birth weight and body length.

20140710	Two novel SNPs of the ABCG2 gene and its associations with milk traits in Chinese Holsteins. The ATP-binding cassette transporter ABCG2 (also known as breast cancer resistance protein, BCRP) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family of transmembrane drug transporters, playing a crucial role in the protection of various cells and tissues against xenotoxins and/or endotoxins. Recently, several studies have proposed it as the potential gene underlying the QTL on bovine chromosome 6. Hence, in this study, the PCR-SSCP method was applied to detect two polymorphisms (A  C and A  G) in the target sequence coding nucleotide-binding  domain (NBD) region of ABCG2 and evaluate its associations with milk production traits and mastitis-related traits among Chinese Holsteins. In the analyzed population, the allelic frequencies for the A and B alleles were 0.5990 and 0.4010, respectively and the genotypic frequencies were in Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium (P < 0.01). Moreover, significant statistical relationships between the polymorphisms of ABCG2 gene and following traits, including milk yields, milk protein percentage and somatic cell scores (SCS), were found (P < 0.05). When compared with AA genotype, BB genotype was associated with higher milk yields during 1st and 2nd lactations, as well as lower milk protein percentage and SCS. Thus, BB genotype is suggested to be a molecular marker for superior milk performance.

20163651	Association of a single nucleotide polymorphism in ribosomal protein L27a gene with marbling in Japanese Black beef cattle. Marbling, defined by the amount and distribution of intramuscular fat, is an economically important trait of beef cattle in Japan. The c2-11#2 expressed sequence tag (EST) has been previously shown to possess expression difference in  musculus longissimus muscle between low-marbled and high-marbled steer groups, and to be located within genomic region of a quantitative trait locus for marbling. Thus, the ribosomal protein L27a (RPL27A) gene containing the c2-11#2 EST sequence was considered as a positional candidate for the gene responsible for marbling. In the present study, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter region of the RPL27A, referred to as g.3109537C>T, was detected between  the 2 steer groups. The SNP was associated with the predicted breeding value for  beef marbling standard number by the analyses using Japanese Black beef cattle population. The effect of genotypes of the SNP on the predicted breeding value for subcutaneous fat thickness was not statistically significant. These findings  suggest that the RPL27A SNP may be useful for effective marker-assisted selection to increase the levels of marbling in Japanese Black beef cattle.

20172241	Quantitative trait loci mapping of calving and conformation traits on Bos taurus  autosome 18 in the German Holstein population. Linkage, linkage disequilibrium, and combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium  analyses were performed to map quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting calving and conformation traits on Bos taurus autosome 18 (BTA18) in the German Holstein  population. Six paternal half-sib families consisting of a total of 1,054 animals were genotyped on 28 genetic markers in the telomeric region on BTA18 spanning approximately 30 Mb. Calving traits, body type traits, and udder type traits were investigated. Using univariately estimated breeding values, maternal and direct effects on calving ease and stillbirth were analyzed separately for first- and further-parity calvings. The QTL initially identified by separate linkage and linkage disequilibrium analyses could be confirmed by a combined linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis for udder composite index, udder depth, fore udder attachment, front teat placement, body depth, rump angle, and direct effects on calving ease and stillbirth. Concurrence of QTL peaks and a similar shape of restricted log-likelihood ratio profiles were observed between udder type traits and for body depth and calving traits, respectively. Association analyses were performed for markers flanking the most likely QTL positions by applying a mixed model including a fixed allele effect of the maternally inherited allele and a random polygenic effect. Results indicated that microsatellite marker DIK4234 (located at 53.3 Mb) is associated with maternal effects on stillbirth, direct effects on calving ease, and body depth. A comparison of effects for maternally inherited DIK4234 alleles indicated a favorable, positive correlation of maternal and direct effects on calving. Additionally, the association of maternally inherited DIK4234 marker alleles with body depth implied that conformation traits might provide the functional background of the QTL for calving traits. For udder type traits, the strong coincidence of QTL peaks and the position of the QTL in a region previously reported to harbor QTL for somatic cell score indicated that effects of QTL for udder type traits might be correlated with effects of QTL for udder health traits on BTA18. Our results suggest that loci in the middle to telomeric region on BTA18 with effect on conformation traits may also contribute to the genetic variance of calving and udder health traits. Further analyses are required to identify the causal mutations affecting conformation and calving traits and to investigate the correlation of effects for loci associated with conformation, calving, and udder health traits.

20172245	Polymorphisms in the bovine lactoferrin promoter are associated with reproductive performance and somatic cell count. Lactoferrin plays an important role in the innate immune system, with well-characterized antibacterial, antiviral, and immune modulatory properties. The objective of this study was to determine the allele and haplotype frequency of polymorphisms at positions -586, -190, and -28 of the bovine lactoferrin promoter in Holstein-Friesians and to quantify their association with performance using phenotypic data on progeny from 848 sires. Associations between genotypes and performance were quantified using weighted mixed models with genotyped individuals included as a random effect, and average expected relationships among individuals accounted for through a numerator relationship matrix. The dependent  variables were daughter yield deviation for production traits and deregressed predicted transmitting ability for calving interval and functional survival. The  C to T polymorphism at -586, which distorts a putative activating protein 2 (AP-2) binding site, was associated with a shorter calving interval and higher somatic cell score. The G to A polymorphism at -190, located in a putative selective promoter factor 1 (SP-1) binding site, was associated with a longer calving interval and decreased functional survival. A third polymorphism (A to C) at position -28, found within the noncanonical TATA box, had a tendency to associate with functional survival. On the basis of the data we proposed a haplotype combination that was associated with improved reproductive performance  in the Holstein-Friesian breed. We hypothesized that the observable phenotypic associations with lactoferrin promoter polymorphisms can potentially be explained by allele-specific differences in constitutive or inducible levels of gene expression. The lack of a pleiotropic effect of the single nucleotide polymorphisms studied on both fertility and milk production traits strengthens the importance of these polymorphisms, or at least the lactoferrin promoter, in selection for improved fertility.

20200568	Mapping a quantitative trait locus for the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin in milk, and the effect of beta-lactoglobulin genetic variants on the composition of milk from Holstein-Friesian x Jersey crossbred cows. AIM: To identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin in milk, and to evaluate the effect of beta-lactoglobulin genetic variants on the concentration of fat, protein and casein in bovine milk. METHODS: A herd of 850 F2 Holstein-Friesian x Jersey crossbred cows was produced  through mating six Holstein-Friesian x Jersey F1 bulls of high genetic merit with F1 cows from the national herd. A total of 1,610 herd-test records from 556 second-parity crossbreds were analysed. The concentration of fat, protein and casein in milk was measured at peak, mid- and late lactation, during the production seasons of 2003-2004 and 2004-2005. Liveweight was measured daily. DNA from the F2 animals, their F1 dams and sires, and selected grandsires was genotyped across the genome, initially with 285 microsatellite markers, and subsequently with 6,634 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP). RESULTS: A highly significant QTL for the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin in  milk was identified, which coincided with the position of the beta-lactoglobulin  gene on bovine Chromosome 11. No other consistently significant QTL for the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin in milk were detected. Cows with the BB beta-lactoglobulin genotype produced milk with a 30% lower concentration of beta-lactoglobulin than cows with the AA genotype. The beta-lactoglobulin polymorphism also explained variation in the proportion of casein in total protein. In addition, the percentage of fat was higher for BB than AA animals, whereas the percentage of total protein, mean daily milk yield and liveweight did not differ between AA and BB animals. CONCLUSIONS: A significant QTL determining the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin in milk was identified. Selection of animals for the beta-lactoglobulin B-allele may enable the production of milk naturally enriched  for casein, thus allowing a potential increase in the yield of cheese. There may  be additional future value in production of bovine milk more like human milk, where decreasing the concentration of beta-lactoglobulin is desirable.

20207511	Polymorphisms in the 5' upstream region of the FSH receptor gene, and their association with superovulation traits in Chinese Holstein cows. To identify a predictor to forecast superovulation response on the basis of associations between superovulation performance and gene polymorphism, variation  in the bovine follicle stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) gene was investigated  using PCR-single-strand conformational (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing. One single  nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of G-278A located in the 5' upstream region of bovine FSHR gene was found in 118 Chinese Holstein cows treated for superovulation. Two SNPs of G-278A (GU253337) and A-320T (rs43676359) were analyzed. In polymorphic locus -278, all cows without superovulation response were mutations with genotypes of CD and DD. Cows with CC genotype had a significant increase in the total number of ova (TNO) (P<0.01), and produced more transferable embryos (NTE) than those of the CD and DD genotypes (P<0.01). At this locus, the additive effects seemed to be highly significant (P<0.01) and allele C was associated with an increase in the TNO and NTE. These results indicated that the FSHR is a potential marker for superovulation response and can be used as a predictor for superovulation in Chinese Holstein cows.

20213510	Correlation analysis between three novel SNPs of the Src gene in bovine and milk  production traits. As an essential signaling modulator, Src gene appears to be necessary for increased expression of the prolactin receptor, normal downstream signaling, and  alveolar cell organization. In this study, we detected the polymorphism of Src gene by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay  (PCR-RFLP) and DNA sequencing methods in 985 individuals from three Chinese cattle breeds. Three novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (g.14062C>T ss161151834, g.17302G>A ss161151835, g.18107T>C ss161151836) were detected. Least squares analysis showed that cows with g.14062C>T-CC genotypes and g.18107T>C-TT  genotypes had the highest protein rate, while the cows with g.17302G>A-GG genotype had higher 305 d milk yield (p < 0.05), fat yield (p < 0.01) and protein yield (p < 0.01) than the ones with genotypes g.17302G>A-GA. These results revealed the statistical significant effects of three SNPs of the Src gene on the milk production traits in Chinese Holstein. In addition, based on the nine genotypes constructed from 27 combined haplotypes, the association analysis between combined haplotypes and milk production traits was carried out. Statistic results showed that the cows with combined haplotypes H2H4(CCGATT) had the highest fat rate and the highest protein rate and the cows with combined haplotypes H1H8(TCGATC) and H3H7(TCGGCC) had greater 305 d mild yield than H1H2(CCAATC)(P < 0.05). Our finding demonstrated that the Src gene possibly contributed to conducting association analysis and can be recognized as genetic marker in milk production traits and other performance for animal breeding and genetics.

20219139	Replicated association of the single nucleotide polymorphism in EDG1 with marbling in three general populations of Japanese Black beef cattle. BACKGROUND: Marbling, defined by the amount and the distribution of intramuscular fat and measured as beef marbling score (BMS), is an economically important trait of beef cattle in Japan. We recently reported that a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), namely, c.-312A>G, in the endothelial differentiation, sphingolipid G-protein-coupled receptor, 1 (EDG1) gene was associated with the BMS level in the Japanese Black beef cattle population of Oita prefecture, with the G allele being associated with a high level of the BMS. Thus, the c.-312A>G SNP seems to be a candidate marker for marker-assisted selection. In this study,  we investigated whether this association could be replicated in 3 other independent Japanese Black cattle populations and analyzed the effect of the SNP  genotypes on the carcass traits other than the BMS. FINDINGS: Statistically significant differences in the BMS level were detected among the genotypes of the c.-312A>G SNP in the Japanese black beef cattle populations of Miyazaki (P = 0.0377) and Nagasaki (P = 0.0012) prefectures, and marginal difference was detected in the Kagoshima prefecture population (P = 0.0786). The G allele in the SNP was associated with an increase in the BMS level.The G allele also seemed to have a favorable influence, if any, on the carcass weight, rib eye area and rib thickness of the cattle populations. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the association of the c.-312A>G SNP with the BMS level in the Japanese Black beef cattle population was replicated in other beef cattle populations, and revealed favorable effects of the G allele on  the beef productivity in the general Japanese Black beef cattle population. Thus, we concluded that the c.-312A>G SNP is useful for effective marker-assisted selection to increase the BMS level in Japanese Black beef cattle.

20232158	A novel 18-bp deletion mutation of the AMPD1 gene affects carcass traits in Qinchuan cattle. The objectives of the present study were focused on detecting deletion mutation in bovine AMPD1 gene, and analyzing its effect on body measurement and carcass traits in Qinchuan cattle by using DNA sequencing and agarose electrophoresis methods. The 198-bp PCR products of AMPD1 gene exhibited three genotypes and two  alleles were revealed: A and B. The frequencies of genotype AA/AB/BB in Qinchuan  populations was 0.7163, 0.2233 and 0.0605. The (2)-test analysis demonstrated that the breed was not in agreement with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P < 0.05). The association of the 18-bp deletion mutation of AMPD1 gene with body measurement and carcass traits of Qinchuan cattle were analyzed. The cattle with  AA genotype had slaughter weight and carcass weight than those with genotype AB (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05). These results suggest that the 18-bp deletion mutation may influence the carcass traits in Qinchuan cattle.

20237851	Molecular characterization, polymorphism of bovine ZBTB38 gene and association with body measurement traits in native Chinese cattle breeds. Zinc finger and BTB domain containing 38 (ZBTB38), binding to and repressing methylated DNA, is an important candidate gene for selection of body measurement  traits through marker-assisted selection (MAS). The expression of ZBTB38 is regulated in human and animal height as well as other stature indexes. Genomic structural analysis shows that bovine ZBTB38 shares much similarity with human ZBTB38. We discovered and evaluated the potential association of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the bovine ZBTB38 gene with body measurement traits in 722 individuals. The latest findings demonstrate that the A841G SNP in  exon 1 is significantly associated with Body Length (BL), Hip Height (HH) and Heart Girth (HG). Furthermore, the analysis of A841G SNP marker shows that there  are significant effects on the BL (P = 0.0389) in 722 individuals, significant effects on the HH (P = 0.0173) and HG (P = 0.0147) in Qinchuan improvement steers (QI) population, as well as significant effects on the WH (P = 0.0094) in Xuelong (XL) population. These results clearly suggest that the ZBTB38 gene is among of target genes for body measurement traits in bovine reproduction and breeding, and thus provide data for establishment of an animal model using cattle to study big  animal body type.

20238172	An MspI polymorphism in the inhibin alpha gene and its associations with superovulation traits in Chinese Holstein cows. To identify a predictor to forecast superovulation response on the basis of associations between superovulation performance and gene polymorphism, the PCR-RFLP method was applied to detect an A>G transition determining an MspI polymorphism at position 192 in the exon I of the bovine inhibin alpha (INHA) gene and evaluate its associations with superovulatory response in 118 Chinese Holstein cows treated for superovulation. Association analysis showed that cows with the GG genotype resulted in a significant increase in the number of ova (TNO) than AG and AA genotypes in the first (P=0.023), second (P=0.004) and third (P=0.002) superovulation treatments and produced more transferable embryos (NTE)  than that of AG and AA genotypes in the third (P=0.045) superovulation treatment. Moreover, individuals with GG genotype produced more transferable embryos than AA (P<0.05) genotype in the second superovulation treatment and all cows without superovulation response were mutations with genotypes of AA and AG. These results indicate that INHA gene can be used as a predictor for superovulation in Chinese  Holstein cows, and imply that cows with AA genotype should be excluded for superovulation practices.

20306301	Three novel SNPs in the coding region of PPAR gene and their associations with meat quality traits in cattle. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) is a nuclear hormone receptor that regulates adipogenesis and many other biological processes. In the  present study, we carried out PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing analyses to examine SNPs in coding region of the PPAR gene. A total of 660 individuals from five Chinese cattle breeds were genotyped. We identified three SNPs and their associations with meat quality traits were analyzed in 108 Qinchuan cattle. Two missense mutations and one synonymous mutation were found: 200 A>G (genotypes AA, AB and BB) resulting in D7G change, the silent substitution 42895 C>T (genotypes  JJ and JI) and 72472 G>T (genotypes CC, DC and DD) producing Q448H change, respectively. The frequencies of PPAR-A allele were 0.86, 0.83, 0.80, 0.72 and 0.87 for Qinchuan, Nanyang, Jiaxian, Luxi and Xianan populations, respectively. The frequencies of PPAR-J allele varied from 0.87 to 0.96 in the five populations. In the 72472 G>T locus, the frequencies of PPAR-C allele were higher than PPAR-D allele in the five populations, and ranged from 0.58 to 0.82. Least squares analysis revealed that in 42895 C>T locus, there was a significant  effect on tenderness in 18-20 months Qinchuan cattle (P<0.01), and in the 72472 G>T locus, animals with the genotype DC had lower mean values than these with genotype CC (P<0.01) for back fat thickness in 18-20 months, and animals with the genotype DD had lower mean values than these with genotypes CC and DC (P<0.01) for water holding capacity in 21-24 months (P<0.01). The SNPs we have identified  may contribute to establishing a more efficient selection program for improving of genetic characteristics in indigenous Chinese cattle.

20331595	Genetic polymorphisms of the bovine fatty acid binding protein 4 gene are significantly associated with marbling and carcass weight in Hanwoo (Korean Cattle). The objective of this study was to investigate an association between polymorphisms in the FABP4 gene and phenotypic variation for marbling and carcass weight (CWT) in a population of Hanwoo steers. We re-sequenced 4.3 kb of the FABP4 gene region in 24 Hanwoo bulls and identified 16 SNPs and 1 microsatellite  polymorphism. Of these 16 SNPs, three SNPs [g.2774G>C (intron I), g.3473A>T (intron II) and g.3631G>A (exon III, creating a p.Met >Val amino acid substitution)] were genotyped in 583 steers to assess their association with carcass traits. The g.3473A allele showed a significant increasing effect on CWT  (P = 0.01) and the g.3631G allele was associated with higher marbling score (P =  0.006). One haplotype of these three SNPs (CAG) was significantly associated with CWT (P = 0.02) and marbling score (P = 0.05) and could potentially be of value for marker assisted selection in Hanwoo cattle. The CAG haplotype effect for CWT  was larger (11.14 +/- 5.03 kg) than the largest single locus effect of g.3473A>T  (5.01 +/- 2.2 kg).

20336380	A novel SNP of the ATP1A1 gene is associated with heat tolerance traits in dairy  cows. PCR low ionic strength single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-LIS-SSCP) and DNA sequencing methods were used to analyze the polymorphisms within the coding region of bovine ATP1A1 gene. A novel C/A mutation was identified at the nucleotide position 2789 of the ATP1A1 mRNA, but it was silent with respect to the amino acid sequence of the protein. The LIS-SSCP banding pattern could be divided into three kinds of genotypes, named CC, CA, and AA. Also, the association of the novel SNP of ATP1A1 gene with heat tolerance traits was studied, we found that the individuals with genotype CC showed significantly higher heat resistance than those of genotype CA (P<0.05). Further, the mRNA levels of ATP1A1 gene in lymphocytes of peripheral blood in dairy cows among various temperature groups and genotypes were analyzed by using real-time RT-PCR. Results showed that the expression of ATP1A1 mRNA was highest in heat-stressed cows with CC genotype among the three genotypes (P<0.01), and the ATP1A1 mRNA level at temperature 32.5C was higher than that at optimal temperature 12.5C in dairy cows (P<0.01). Simultaneity, the plasma potassium (K+, mmol/l) and sodium (Na+, mmol/l) declined when the temperature dropped (P<0.05). Our findings implied that the novel SNP here could be a potential genetic marker for anti-heat stress trait in dairy cow breeding.

20338449	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the bovine solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) gene and their association with infection by Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis. Johne's disease is a chronic enteritis caused by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) that causes substantial financial losses for the cattle industry. Susceptibility to MAP infection is reported to be determined in part by genetic factors, so marker-assisted selection could help to obtain bovine populations that are increasingly resistant to MAP infection. Solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) was adjudged to be a potential candidate gene because of its role in innate immunity, its involvement in susceptibility to numerous intracellular infections, and its previous association with bovine MAP infection. The objectives of this study were to carry out an exhaustive process of discovery and compilation of polymorphisms in SLC11A1 gene, and to perform a population-based genetic association study to test its implication in susceptibility to MAP infection in cattle. In all, 57 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were detected, 25 of which are newly described in Bos taurus. Twenty-four SNP and two 3'-untranslated region polymorphisms, previously analyzed, were selected for a subsequent association study in 558 European Holstein-Friesian animals. The SNP c.1067C>G and c.1157-91A>T and a haplotype formed by these 2 SNP yielded significant association with susceptibility to MAP  infection. The c.1067C>G is a nonsynonymous SNP that causes an amino acid change  in codon 356 from proline to alanine (P356A) that could alter SLC11A1 protein function. This association study supports the involvement of SLC11A1 gene in susceptibility to MAP infection in cattle. Our results suggest that SNP c.1067C>G may be a potential causal variant, although functional studies are needed to assure this point.

20349144	Single nucleotide polymorphisms of the prolactin receptor (PRLR) gene and its association with growth traits in Chinese cattle. Genetic polymorphism of the prolactin receptor (PRLR) gene was detected by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods in 665 individuals from five Chinese cattle breeds. The results showed that at the P1 locus, three observed genotypes (AA, AB and BB), two linked SNPs (G1267A and T1268C), and one missense mutation (S18N) within a putative signal peptide were determined. The frequencies of haplotypes A and B in the five breeds were 0.596-0.802 and 0.198-0.404, respectively. Polymorphism of the PRLR gene was shown to be significantly associated with growth traits in the Nanyang breed. Individuals with genotype BB had greater hucklebone width, body weight and average daily gain than those with genotype AA  at 6 months old (P<0.01), as well as better body height, body length and heart girth when 6 months (P<0.05). This study revealed for the first time that the PRLR gene is a promising candidate gene that affects growth traits in cattle.

20374858	The polymorphisms of stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD1) and sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1) genes and their association with the fatty acid profile of muscle and subcutaneous fat in Fleckvieh bulls. The previously reported genetic polymorphisms of the stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD1) and sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1) genes were investigated in Fleckvieh bulls using the PCR-RFLP and AS-PCR methods, respectively. The genomic DNA was obtained from a total of 370 bulls. The frequencies of alleles A and V of the single nucleotide polymorphism in exon 5 of the SCD1 gene (SNP 878C>T) were 0.555 and 0.445, respectively. In the 84-bp Ins/Del polymorphism in intron 5 of the SREBP-1 gene, the frequency of the L allele (insertion) was markedly higher (0.920) than that of the S allele (deletion; 0.080). Fatty acid profile was determined in a total of 367 samples of muscle fat (MSF) and 150 samples of subcutaneous fat (SCF). The AA genotype of SCD1 polymorphism showed a lower content of C18:0 (P<0.01) and higher contents of C14:1 cis-9 (P<0.001) and C18:1 cis-9 (P<0.05) in MSF compared to the VV genotype. As a result, the bulls with genotypes AA or AV had lower SFA (P<0.01),  higher MUFA (P<0.05) and higher MUFA/SFA (P<0.01) than VV animals. The results obtained for SCF were similar. The SREBP-1 polymorphism was associated with a higher content of C14:1 cis-9 (P<0.01) in the LS compared to LL genotype in SCF.  The results of this study demonstrated the existence of the polymorphisms in the  SCD1 and SREBP-1 genes in the population of Fleckvieh cattle and their associations with the concentrations of several MSF and SCF fatty acids.

20379885	Characterization of DGAT1 allelic effects in a sample of North American Holstein  cattle. A putative causative mutation underlying a QTL was identified as a lysine to alanine non-conservative substitution at amino acid 232 of the gene encoding the  acylCoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1) protein. Our goal was to characterize the allelic substitution effects of this DGAT1 mutation in a large sample of Holstein bulls from North America. Statistically significant effects were identified for all of the milk production traits and somatic cell scores. Estimated average effects of substituting the lysine allele for the alanine variant on Holstein bull daughter yield deviations were -81 kg, 3.7 kg, -1.1 kg,  0.063%, 0.012%, and -0.023 units for milk yield, fat yield, protein yield, fat component, protein component, and SCS, respectively. These estimates were largely in agreement with previous studies; however, the magnitudes of the estimates were much smaller in this study. Impacts on economic indices for net merit, cheese merit, and fluid merit were modest. Because of the strong antagonism between fat  and protein yield and how those traits influence economic indices, selection for  DGAT1 genotypes will likely not find widespread application in the U.S.

20394602	A genome-wide association study using selective DNA pooling identifies candidate  markers for fertility in Holstein cattle. The decline in the reproductive efficiency of dairy cows, especially those with high producing potential, has become a challenging problem. In this study, a selective DNA pooling approach was applied to a cow population whose oocytes were fertilized and cultured to obtain phenotypic records of fertilization rate and blastocyst rate. Using a stringent 5% genome-wide significance level, 22 and five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found to be associated with fertilization rate and blastocyst rate, respectively. SNPs that showed significant association in selective DNA pooling were further evaluated by individual genotyping. Interestingly, the majority of the SNP associations were confirmed by individual genotyping, testifying to the effectiveness of selective  DNA pooling using a high-density SNP genotyping array. This study is the first application of the selective DNA pooling approach using the BovineSNP50 array in  cattle.

20398313	Polymorphisms in the gene encoding bovine interleukin-10 receptor alpha are associated with Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis infection status. BACKGROUND: Johne's disease is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) of ruminants caused by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP). Since this pathogen has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human IBDs, the goal of this  study was to assess whether single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) in several well-known candidate genes for human IBD are associated with susceptibility to MAP infection in dairy cattle. METHODS: The bovine candidate genes, interleukin-10 (IL10), IL10 receptor alpha/beta (IL10RA/B), transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFB1), TGFB receptor class I/II (TGFBR1/2), and natural resistance-associated macrophage protein 1 (SLC11A1) were sequenced for SNP discovery using pooled DNA samples, and the identified SNPs were genotyped in a case-control association study comprised of 242 MAP negative and 204 MAP positive Holstein dairy cattle. Logistic regression  was used to determine the association of SNPs and reconstructed haplotypes with MAP infection status. RESULTS: A total of 13 SNPs were identified. Four SNPs in IL10RA (984G > A, 1098C > T, 1269T > C, and 1302A > G) were tightly linked, and showed a strong additive  and dominance relationship with MAP infection status. Haplotypes AGC and AAT, containing the SNPs IL10RA 633C > A, 984G > A and 1185C > T, were associated with an elevated and reduced likelihood of positive diagnosis by serum ELISA, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: SNPs in IL10RA are associated with MAP infection status in dairy cattle. The functional significance of these SNPs warrants further investigation.

20412936	Genetic markers for lactation persistency in primiparous Australian dairy cows. Good performance in extended lactations of dairy cattle may have a beneficial effect on food costs, health, and fertility. Because data for extended lactation  performance is scarce, lactation persistency has been suggested as a suitable selection criterion. Persistency phenotypes were calculated in several ways: P1 was yield relative to an approximate peak, P2 was the slope after peak production, and P3 was a measure derived to be phenotypically uncorrelated to yield and calculated as a function of linear regressions on test-day deviations of days in milk. Phenotypes P1, P2, and P3 were calculated for sires as solutions estimated from a random regression model fitted to milk yield. Because total milk yield, calculated as the sum of daily sire solutions, was correlated to P1 and P2 (r=0.30 and 0.35 for P1 and P2, respectively), P1 and P2 were also adjusted for milk yield (P1adj and P2adj, respectively). To find genomic regions associated with the persistency phenotypes, we used a discovery population of 743 Holstein bulls proven before 2005 and 2 validation data sets of 357 Holstein bulls proven  after 2005 and 294 Jersey sires. Two strategies were used to search for genomic regions associated with persistency: 1) persistency solutions were regressed on each single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in turn and 2) a genomic selection method (BayesA) was used where all SNP were fitted simultaneously. False discovery rates in the validation data were high (>66% in Holsteins and >77% in Jerseys). However, there were 2 genomic regions on chromosome 6 that validated in both breeds, including a cluster of 6 SNP at around 13.5 to 23.7 Mbp and another  cluster of 5 SNP (70.4 to 75.6 Mbp). A third cluster validated in both breeds on  chromosome 26 (0.33 to 1.46 Mbp). Validating SNP effects across 2 breeds is unlikely to happen by chance even when false discovery rates within each breed are high. However, marker-assisted selection on these selected SNP may not be the best way to improve this trait because the average variation explained by validated SNP was only 1 to 2%. Genomic selection could be a better alternative.  Correlations between genomic breeding values predicted using all SNP simultaneously and estimated breeding values based on progeny test were twice as  high as the equivalent correlations between estimated breeding values and parent  average. Persistency is a good candidate for genomic selection because the trait  is expressed late in lactation.

20416790	Identification of QTL with effects on fatty acid composition of meat in a Charolais x Holstein cross population. A whole-genome scan was carried out to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) influencing beef fatty acid composition using a CharolaisxHolstein population established using a balanced F2 and Backcross breeding design. The phenotypes considered in this study included a total of 24 fatty acid related traits determined in loin muscle samples of the 235 second-generation cross-bred bull calves of the herd. The QTL regression analysis performed, based on 165 microsatellite markers distributed across the 29 bovine autosomes, identified 34  QTL with F-ratios exceeding the 5% chromosome-wide significance threshold. Three  of these QTL, one located on chromosome 1 (for the content on linoleic acid, C18:2n-6) and two on chromosome 10 (for the content of gamma-linoleic DPA-docosapentaenoic and DPA-docosapentaenoic, C20:3n-6 and C22:5n-3), also exceeded the 5% genome-wide significance level. A follow-up analysis correcting for intramuscular fat content showed that some of the QTL detected initially (e.g. those localised on chromosome 22) were influenced by fat deposition differences between the founder breeds. The coincident location of some of the linkage associations identified and QTL previously reported for beef fatty acid composition and other meat quality traits, in the same or other cattle populations, provides supporting evidence for the results reported here.

20433753	Genome wide scan for quantitative trait loci affecting tick resistance in cattle  (Bos taurus x Bos indicus). BACKGROUND: In tropical countries, losses caused by bovine tick Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus infestation have a tremendous economic impact on cattle production systems. Genetic variation between Bos taurus and Bos indicus to tick  resistance and molecular biology tools might allow for the identification of molecular markers linked to resistance traits that could be used as an auxiliary  tool in selection programs. The objective of this work was to identify QTL associated with tick resistance/susceptibility in a bovine F2 population derived  from the Gyr (Bos indicus) x Holstein (Bos taurus) cross. RESULTS: Through a whole genome scan with microsatellite markers, we were able to map six genomic regions associated with bovine tick resistance. For most QTL, we  have found that depending on the tick evaluation season (dry and rainy) different sets of genes could be involved in the resistance mechanism. We identified dry season specific QTL on BTA 2 and 10, rainy season specific QTL on BTA 5, 11 and 27. We also found a highly significant genome wide QTL for both dry and rainy seasons in the central region of BTA 23. CONCLUSIONS: The experimental F2 population derived from Gyr x Holstein cross successfully allowed the identification of six highly significant QTL associated  with tick resistance in cattle. QTL located on BTA 23 might be related with the bovine histocompatibility complex. Further investigation of these QTL will help to isolate candidate genes involved with tick resistance in cattle.

20449817	A single nucleotide polymorphism in the coding region of bovine transferrin is associated with milk fat yield. The bovine transferrin gene (TF) is located at 125 cM on bovine chromosome 1 (BTA1); it codes for transferrin, a glycoprotein that is highly conserved in many species and that is responsible for iron transport. The TF gene has been located  in several QTL regions, and some transferrin classes have been associated with fat and milk yields. We analyzed by means of allele-specific oligonucleotide real-time PCR the c.1455A>G SNP in exon 12 of the TF cDNA sequence (accession number U02564), which induces an Asp/Gly substitution at position 469 of the peptide. The c.1455A>G SNP was assayed in eight Spanish cattle breeds, as well as in two groups of Holstein-Friesian animals that had the highest and lowest estimated breeding values for milk fat yield. Analysis of the cSNP showed balanced frequencies in all breeds, with a mean of 0.44. Evaluation of a potential association between the cSNP and the groups of Holstein-Friesian animals selected for milk fat yield showed a significant association (P < 0.0006); the G allele was associated with high fat production. Significant differences in genotypic frequencies between the groups were also detected (P < 0.0028). These results lead us to suggest that the TF gene has an effect on milk  fat yield.

20453307	Novel 12-bp deletion in the coding region of the bovine NPM1 gene affects growth  traits. The nucleophosmin 1 gene (NPM1) encodes a multifunctional nucleolar phosphoprotein that plays a crucial role in the control of various aspects of cell growth and homeostasis. In this study, the coding region of the NPM1 gene was screened in 1035 individuals of 4 Chinese cattle breeds by DNA sequencing and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A novel 12-bp deletion mutation was identified in the coding region of the NPM1 gene. The PCR products of primer NPM1-P2 exhibited 3 genotypes and 2 alleles: 178 bp (denoted as W) and 166 bp (denoted as D). Genotype DD and allele D were predominant in the studied populations. Association analysis with growth traits in the Nanyang breed (N = 265) showed that the animals with genotype DD had significantly greater birth weight, body weight, body length, and heart girth than those with genotype WD (P  < 0.01 or P < 0.05) at birth and after 6 months and 12 months, but not at 18 and  24 months of age. Results of this study suggest that the NPM1 gene is a candidate gene for growth traits in cattle.

20467980	Polymorphisms in the IGF1 gene and their effect on growth traits in Mexican beef  cattle. The IGF1 gene (insulin-like growth factor 1) is a candidate gene for marker-assisted selection strategies. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region (IGF1/SnaBI) has been reported to be associated with production traits in several cattle breeds. Here, we report its allelic frequencies in Charolais and Beefmaster breeds; we confirm its association with three growth traits: weaning weight, weaning weight adjusted to 210 days and preweaning weight gain in the Charolais breed. In addition, we designed a strategy to search these  breeds for new polymorphisms in four coding regions of the gene. A C/A transversion was detected in intron 4, but it was not associated with the growth  traits. A single nucleotide polymorphism (IGF1/SnaBI) is proposed as a selection  marker for Mexican Charolais cattle; validation of its association with weaning weight, weaning weight adjusted to 210 days and preweaning weight gain, could complement the genetic evaluations of this breed through marker-assisted management strategies.

20467982	Association of ATP1A1 gene polymorphism with heat tolerance traits in dairy cattle. Heat stress produces oxidative stress and affects the alternation of plasma K(+)  and Na(+). Since Na(+),K(+)-ATPase is sensitive to oxidative stress and critical  for maintaining the homeostasis of these two ions, we examined the genetic polymorphism of the ATP1A1 gene in 160 Holstein cows using polymerase chain reaction low ionic strength single-strand conformation polymorphism and DNA sequencing methods. G to A at position -14103 in exon 14 and C to T at position -14242 in intron 14 of the bovine ATP1A1 gene were identified, but the former single nucleotide polymorphism was silent with respect to the amino acid sequence of the protein. However, we found significant correlations between ATP1A1 gene polymorphism and the coefficient of heat tolerance (P<0.01) and with respiratory  rate (P<0.01). Genotype AC was the most favorable genotype for heat tolerance. This polymorphism site has potential as a genetic marker for heat tolerance traits in dairy cattle breeding.

20477785	Quantitative trait loci for organ weights and adipose fat composition in Jersey and Limousin back-cross cattle finished on pasture or feedlot. A QTL study of live animal and carcass traits in beef cattle was carried out in New Zealand and Australia. Back-cross calves (385 heifers and 398 steers) were generated, with Jersey and Limousin backgrounds. This paper reports on weights of eight organs (heart, liver, lungs, kidneys, spleen, gastro-intestinal tract, fat, and rumen contents) and 12 fat composition traits (fatty acid (FA) percentages, saturated and monounsaturated FA subtotals, and fat melting point). The New Zealand cattle were reared and finished on pasture, whilst Australian cattle were reared on grass and finished on grain for at least 180 days. For organ weights and fat composition traits, 10 and 12 significant QTL locations (P<0.05), respectively, were detected on a genome-wide basis, in combined-sire or within-sire analyses. Seven QTL significant for organ weights were found at the proximal end of chromosome 2. This chromosome carries a variant myostatin allele  (F94L), segregating from the Limousin ancestry, and this is a positional candidate for the QTL. Ten significant QTL for fat composition were found on chromosomes 19 and 26. Fatty acid synthase and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD1), respectively, are positional candidate genes for these QTL. Two FA QTL found to be common to sire groups in both populations were for percentages of C14:0 and C14:1 (relative to all FAs) on chromosome 26, near the SCD1 candidate gene.

20477790	Genetic association between bovine NOD2 polymorphisms and infection by Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in Holstein-Friesian cattle. Nucleotide-Binding Oligomerization Domain 2 (NOD2) has been reported to be a candidate gene for Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) infection in a Bos taurus  Bos indicus mixed breed based on a genetic association with the c.2197T>C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Nevertheless, this SNP has also been reported to be monomorphic in the B. taurus species. In the present work, 18 SNPs spanning the bovine NOD2 gene have been analysed in a genetic association study of two independent populations of Holstein-Friesian cattle. We found that the C allele of SNP c.*1908C>T, located in the 3-UTR region of the gene, is significantly more frequent in infected animals than in healthy ones, which supports the idea that the bovine NOD2 gene plays a role in susceptibility to MAP infection. However, in silico analyses of the NOD2 nucleotide sequence did not yield definitive data about a possible direct effect of SNP c.*1908C>T on susceptibility to infection and led us to consider its linkage disequilibrium with the causative variant. A more exhaustive genetic association study including all putative, functional SNPs from this gene and subsequent functional analyses needs to be conducted to achieve a more complete understanding of how different variants of NOD2 may affect susceptibility to MAP infection in cattle.

20477797	A genome scan for quantitative trait loci influencing carcass, post-natal growth  and reproductive traits in commercial Angus cattle. To gain insight into the number of loci of large effect that underlie variation in cattle, a quantitative trait locus (QTL) scan for 14 economically important traits was performed in two commercial Angus populations using 390 microsatellites, 11 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and one duplication loci. The first population comprised 1769 registered Angus bulls born between 1955 and 2003, with Expected Progeny Differences computed by the American Angus Association. The second comprised 38 half-sib families containing 1622 steers with six post-natal growth and carcass phenotypes. Linkage analysis was performed by half-sib least squares regression with gridqtl or Bayesian Markov chain Monte  Carlo analysis of complex pedigrees with loki. Of the 673 detected QTL, only 118  have previously been reported, reflecting both the conservative approach to QTL reporting in the literature, and the more liberal approach taken in this study. From 33 to 71% of the genetic variance and 35 to 56% of the phenotypic variance in each trait was explained by the detected QTL. To analyse the effects of 11 SNPs and one duplication locus within candidate genes on each trait, a single marker analysis was performed by fitting an additive allele substitution model in both mapping populations. There were 53 associations detected between the SNP/duplication loci and traits with -log(10) P(nominal)  4.0, where each association explained 0.92% to 4.4% of the genetic variance and 0.01% to 1.86% of the phenotypic variance. Of these associations, only six SNP/duplication loci were located within 8 cM of a QTL peak for the trait, with two being located at the QTL peak: SST_DG156121:c.362A>G for ribeye muscle area and TG_X05380:c.422C>T for calving ease. Strong associations between several SNP/duplication loci and trait variation were obtained in the absence of any detected linked QTL. However, we reject the causality of several commercialized DNA tests, including an association between TG_X05380:c.422C>T and marbling in Angus cattle.

20477799	Genome-wide association mapping for female fertility traits in Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. A genome-wide association study was conducted using a mixed model analysis for QTL for fertility traits in Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. The analysis incorporated 2,531 progeny tested bulls, and a total of 36,387 SNP markers on 29  bovine autosomes were used. Eleven fertility traits were analyzed for SNP association. Furthermore, mixed model analysis was used for association analyses  where a polygenic effect was fitted as a random effect, and genotypes at single SNPs were successively included as a fixed effect in the model. The Bonferroni correction for multiple testing was applied to adjust the significance threshold. Seventy-four SNP-trait combinations showed chromosome-wide significance, and five of these were significant genome-wide. Twenty-four QTL regions on 14 chromosomes  were detected. Strong evidence for the presence of QTL that affect fertility traits were observed on chromosomes 3, 5, 10, 13, 19, 20, and 24. The QTL intervals were generally smaller than those described in earlier linkage studies. The identification of fertility trait-associated SNPs and mapping of the corresponding QTL in small chromosomal regions reported here will facilitate searches for candidate genes and candidate polymorphisms.

20477802	The placental growth factor (PGF)--a positional and functional candidate gene influencing calving ease and stillbirth in German dairy cattle. The bovine placental growth factor-encoding gene (PGF) was analysed as a positional and functional candidate gene for the maternal effect on stillbirth and calving ease in first parity. Prominent levels of PGF expression have been reported for the whole human placenta and umbilical vein endothelial cells. Modulation of angiogenesis, vessel remodelling and vascular permeability during implantation and placentation suggest an influence on trophoblast function during pregnancy. Changes of expression or protein function may therefore be crucial to  pregnancy and parturition. By comparative sequencing of bulls with extreme approximate daughter yield deviations for calving traits, we identified 37 SNPs and two insertions/deletions within the PGF gene. Seventeen of the identified polymorphisms were genotyped in 368 selected bulls and tested for association with approximate daughter yield deviations for calving traits. In a single marker analysis, all SNPs were significantly associated with maternal stillbirth and calving ease first parity. The allele substitutions of the significant SNPs explain 8% to 14% and 8% to 15% of the additive genetic variance for maternal stillbirth and maternal calving ease first parity, respectively. There is no evidence that any of the polymorphisms identified within this study could be the  causal mutation underlying the QTL, which is likely to be a regulatory mutation.  In summary, we report polymorphisms in the bovine PGF gene significantly associated with the maternal effect on stillbirth and calving ease in animals under selection. These results should be confirmed and extended in further studies to identify the causal mutation underlying the QTL analysed.

20477805	Identification of loci associated with tolerance to Johne's disease in Holstein cattle. Johne's disease, caused by Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (Map), is a fatal disease in cattle. The objective of this study was to identify loci associated with tolerance in cows infected with Map. Tolerance was defined as a cow's fitness at a given level of Map infection intensity. Fitness was measured by Map faecal cultures, and Map infection intensity was measured by culturing four gut tissues. The quantitative phenotype of tolerance was defined by numerical indexes of cultures of peak (peak tolerance, PT) and average (average tolerance, AT) faecal and tissue Map from 245 Holstein cows. The categorical phenotype was defined as:  100 cfu Map tissue infection, and faecal shedding  75 cfu (intolerant) or <10 cfu (tolerant cows). In 94 cows, Map was identified in  1 tissue, including 44 cows with  100 Map tissue cfu and 36 with  1 faecal cfu. A genome-wide association analysis was performed after filtering, leaving genotypes for 45,789 SNPs in 90 animals for the quantitative phenotype and 16 cases and 25 controls for the categorical analysis of tolerance. rs41748405:A>C (BTA15) was associated with PT (P = 1.12  10(-7)) and AT (P = 2.17  10(-6)). Associations were identified with PT and adjacent SNPs ss61512613:A>G and ss61530518:A>G (BTA6) (P < 3.0  10(-5)), and with AT for ss61469568:A>G (BTA 2)  (P = 3.3  10(-5)) and ss86284768:A>G (BTA1) (P = 3.31  10(-5)). For the categorical phenotype, an association was found with ss8632653:A>G (BTA6) (P < 5.0  10(-5)). This is the first study to identify loci associated with tolerance to Johne's disease.

20510534	Association of polymorphisms in candidate genes with colour, water-holding capacity, and composition traits in bovine M. longissimus and M. semimembranosus. The objective of this study was to determine the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in selected candidate genes with sensory and technological meat quality traits in commercial cattle. SNP in seven candidate genes were genotyped in 130 crossbred Bos taurus cattle using PCR-RFLP. Reported associations between calpastatin (CAST) and Warner-Bratzler shear force and carboxypeptidase E (CPE) and intra-muscular fat were not confirmed. However, SNP  in CAST, amp-activated protein kinase, gamma-3 subunit (PRKAG3), growth hormone receptor (GHR) and stearoyl coA desaturase (SCD) genes were significantly associated with colour traits (p<0.05). The PRKAG3 SNP was additionally associated with cook loss in M. longissimus thoracis et lumborum (p<0.05) and tended towards association in M. semimembranosus (p<0.1). An association with pH  was identified for the SCD SNP (p<0.001). The GHR polymorphism was influential on moisture and intra-muscular fat in M. semimembranosus and protein content in both muscles (p<0.05). Only CPE was associated with sensory traits (flavour in M. longissimus, p<0.01).

20528848	Associations between newly discovered polymorphisms in the Bos taurus growth hormone receptor gene and performance traits in Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle. Variations in the growth hormone receptor (GHR) gene sequence are associated with performance traits in cattle. For example, the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) F279Y in transmembrane exon 8 has a strong association with milk yield. In  this study, 32 previously unreported, putative novel SNPs (31 in the 5' non-coding region) were identified by resequencing 19 kb of the GHR gene in genomic DNA from 22 cattle of multiple breeds. A population of 848 Holstein-Friesian AI sires was subsequently genotyped for the 32 putative novel SNPs and seven published SNPs (including F279Y, one in exon 1A promoter and five  in exon 10). Associations between each segregating SNP and genetic merit for performance were quantified in the 848 Holstein-Friesians using weighted animal linear mixed models. Six of the published SNPs and seven of the novel SNPs were associated with at least one of the traits--milk yield, fat yield, protein yield, fat percentage, protein percentage, somatic cell score, calving interval, survival and growth and size traits. Even when the allelic substitution effect (P < 0.001) of F279Y was accounted for, the allelic substitution effect of one of the novel SNPs (GHR4.2) in the 5' non-coding region of GHR was associated with a  lactation milk yield of 37.46 kg (P < 0.001). GHR4.2 and F279Y were not in linkage disequilibrium (r(2) = 0.00, D' = 0.04) in the 848 Holstein-Friesians, indicating that their association with milk yield was independent.

20536635	Refined mapping of quantitative trait loci for somatic cell score on BTA02 in the German Holstein. The aim of this study was to more precisely map a previously reported quantitative trait locus (QTL) affecting somatic cell score on Bos taurus autosome 2 by increasing the number of markers fourfold, analysing more families  and exploiting within-population linkage disequilibrium (LD). A granddaughter design of 10 German Holstein grandsire families with 1121 progeny tested sons was used. Twenty-six markers with an average marker spacing of 3.14 cM were genotyped along 81.6 cM. Linkage analysis (LA) was performed using variance-component methodology. The incorporation of LD was first done using variance-component methods followed by regression on marker alleles. LA revealed genome-wide significance (LOD > 3) at 15 contiguous marker-intervals, with the maximum test-statistic between DIK2862 and BMS778 and a 1-lod drop-off interval of 38 cM. While the variance-component methods could not detect any LD, two individual markers with a significant effect (ILSTS098, p < 0.05; BMS778, p < 0.01) were found by regression analysis. Compared with previous results QTL-localisation was substantially narrowed; further fine-mapping should focus on the close vicinity of BMS778.

20549332	Genetic polymorphisms of the CACNA2D1 gene and their association with carcass and meat quality traits in cattle. The objective of this study was to identify genetic polymorphisms of the CACNA2D1 gene and to analyze associations between SNPs and carcass and meat quality traits in cattle. Through PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing methods, a new allelic variant corresponding to the A --> G mutation (aspartic to glycine amino acid replacement) of the bovine CACNA2D1 gene was detected. Two alleles and three genotypes (AA, AG, and GG) were defined. Genetic character indicated that the A526745G locus showed moderate polymorphism and was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Gene-specific SNP marker association analysis showed that the A526745G mutant was significantly associated with carcass weight, dressing percentage, meat percentage, and backfat thickness. The results add new evidence  that CACNA2D1 is an important candidate gene for the selection of carcass and meat quality traits in the cattle industry.

20563647	Polymorphisms in MC4R gene and correlations with economic traits in cattle. MC4R contributes to the control of food intake and energy expenditure, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MC4R gene have clearly been associated with backfat depth, feed intake and growth rate in pig. Our objectives were to scan the complete coding region by sequencing in samples from eight cattle breeds, to estimate the frequency of the SNPs in the MC4R gene and to determine if individual genotypes were associated with several economic traits. Five polymorphisms were detected at position 19 (C/A), 20 (A/T), 83(T/C), 128 (G/A), and 1069 (G/C), and the last one was significantly associated with backfat thickness value (P < 0.01, n = 245). The linkage disequilibrium analysis indicated that the SNP markers C19A, A20T, T83C and G128A were completely linked  (r (2) = 1).

20585886	Novel SNPs of the bovine CACNA2D1 gene and their association with carcass and meat quality traits. Calcium channel, voltage-dependent, alpha-2/delta subunit 1 (CACNA2D1) gene encodes a member of the alpha-2/delta subunit family, proteins are accessory molecules associated with voltage-gated calcium channels, and increase the density at the plasma membrane of calcium channels activated by high voltage. The main objective of the present study was to identify polymorphisms of CACNA2D1 gene, and to analyze associations between these polymorphisms and carcass and meat quality traits in cattle. In this study, through PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods, two new allelic variant corresponding to the CG and GT mutations at positions 526740 and 537917 in the exon25 and exon35 of bovine CACNA2D1 gene, respectively, could be detected. SNP C526740G is a nonsynonymous mutation, resulting in a Cysteine (Cys) to Tryptophan (Trp) amino acid replacement and SNP  G537917T resulting in an Aspartic (Asp) to Tyrosine (Tyr) amino acid replacement. The gene-specific SNP markers association analysis was investigated. The C526740G was significantly associated with Meat color (MC) (P=0.0297) and Backfat thickness (BF) (P<0.001). The G537917A indicated significant association with Dressing percentage (DP) (P=0.0485). No significant association, however, was detected between any of the marker genotype and other traits measured in this study. Results from this study initially suggested that CACNA2D1 gene is one of the potential candidate genes influencing carcass and meat quality traits and gene-specific SNPs may be a useful marker for MAS programs in cattle breeding.

20590532	Whole-genome association study for fatty acid composition of oleic acid in Japanese Black cattle. Fatty acid composition, especially oleic acid (C18:1), plays an important role in the eating quality of meat in Japanese Black cattle. Therefore, the objective of  this study was to identify loci associated with C18:1 in the intramuscular fat of the trapezius muscles in Japanese Black cattle using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip whole genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) assay. We also evaluated the relationship between C18:1 and three fatty acid synthesis genes, fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase and sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1. In this experiment, we applied a mixed model and Genomic Control approach using selective genotyping to perform a genome-wide association study. A total of 160 animals (80 animals with higher values and 80 animals with lower values), selected from 3356 animals based on corrected phenotype, were genotyped using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip and three fatty acid synthesis genes, and the quality of these SNPs was assessed. In this study,  a total of 38955 SNPs, which included SNPs in the three fatty acid synthesis genes, were used, and the estimated inflation factor was 1.06. In the studied population, a total of 32 SNPs, including the FASN gene, had significant effects, and in particular 30 SNPs of all significant SNPs were located between 49 and 55Mbp on chromosome 19. This study is one of the first genome-wide association studies for fatty acid composition in a cattle population using the recently released Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip.

20618184	Whole-Genome association analysis of susceptibility to paratuberculosis in Holstein cattle. The objective of this study was to identify genetic markers and genomic regions associated with susceptibility to Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) infection in Holstein cattle. Associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified by genotyping 521 MAP-infected Holstein cows and comparing SNP allele frequencies of these infected cows with allele frequencies estimated from  specific reference populations. Reference population allele frequency estimates used Holstein sire genotype data and were weighted estimates based on sire usage  within the population in question. The 521 infected cows were 233 and 288 cows from two resource populations of approximately 5000 cows each, collected independently. Population 1 was comprised primarily of daughters of twelve Holstein artificial insemination sires used heavily within the US dairy cattle population. Samples were obtained from 300 co-operating commercial dairy herds throughout the US and were tested by both MAP faecal culture and blood-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Population 2 consisted of dairy  cattle from six co-operating dairy herds in Wisconsin, with all animals in the herds tested by blood enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for MAP infection. Genotyping was performed with the Illumina Bovine SNP50 Bead Chip, providing genotypes for 35,772 informative SNPs. Data from the two resource populations were analysed both in separate and combined analyses. The most significant autosomal markers from the individual and combined analyses (n=197, nominal P<0.001) were used in a stepwise logistic regression analysis to identify a set of 51 SNPs that could be used as a predictor of genetics for Holstein cattle susceptibility to MAP infection.

20630249	A validated genome-wide association study in 2 dairy cattle breeds for milk production and fertility traits using variable length haplotypes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were used to discover genomic regions explaining variation in dairy production and fertility traits. Associations were  detected with either single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers or haplotypes of SNP alleles. An across-breed validation strategy was used to narrow the genomic interval containing causative mutations. There were 39,048 SNP tested in  a discovery population of 780 Holstein sires and validated in 386 Holsteins and 364 Jersey sires. Previously identified mutations affecting milk production traits were confirmed. In addition, several novel regions were identified, including a putative quantitative trait loci for fertility on chromosome 18 that  was detected only using haplotypes greater than 3 SNP long. It was found that the precision of quantitative trait loci mapping increased with haplotype length as did the number of validated haplotypes discovered, especially across breed. Promising candidate genes have been identified in several of the validated regions.

20655450	Effects of beta-kappa-casein (CSN2-CSN3) haplotypes and beta-lactoglobulin (BLG)  genotypes on milk production traits and detailed protein composition of individual milk of Simmental cows. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of CSN2-CSN3 (beta-kappa-casein) haplotypes and BLG (beta-lactoglobulin) genotypes on milk production traits, content of protein fractions, and detailed protein composition of individual milk of Simmental cows. Content of the major protein fractions was  measured by reversed-phase HPLC in individual milk samples of 2,167 cows. Protein composition was measured as percentage of each casein (CN) fraction to total CN and as percentage of beta-lactoglobulin (beta-LG) to total whey protein. Genotypes at CSN2, CSN3, and BLG were ascertained by reversed-phase HPLC, and CSN2-CSN3 haplotype probabilities were estimated for each cow. Traits were analyzed by using a linear model including the fixed effects of herd-test-day, parity, days in milk, and somatic cell score class, linear regressions on haplotype probabilities, class of BLG genotype, and the random effect of the sire of the cow. Effects of haplotypes and BLG genotypes on yields were weak or trivial. Genotype BB at BLG and haplotypes carrying CSN2 B and CSN3 B were associated with increased CN content and CN number. Haplotypes including CSN3 B were associated with increased kappa-CN content and percentage of kappa-CN to total CN and with decreased percentages of alpha(S1)- and gamma-CN to total CN. Allele CSN2 B had the effect of increasing beta-CN content and decreasing content of alpha(S1)-CN. Haplotypes including allele CSN2 A(1) exhibited decreased beta-, alpha(S2)-, and gamma-CN concentrations and increased alpha(S1)- and kappa-CN contents, whereas CSN2 I had positive effects on beta-CN concentration and trivial effects on content of other protein fractions. Effects of haplotypes on CN composition were similar to those exerted on content of CN fractions. Allele BLG A was associated with increased beta-LG concentration and percentage of beta-LG to total whey protein and with decreased content of other milk proteins,  namely beta-CN and alpha(S1)-CN. Estimated additive genetic variance for investigated traits ranged from 14 to 39% of total variance. Increasing the frequency of specific genotypes or haplotypes by selective breeding might be an effective way to change milk protein composition.

20655451	Effects of beta-kappa-casein (CSN2-CSN3) haplotypes, beta-lactoglobulin (BLG) genotypes, and detailed protein composition on coagulation properties of individual milk of Simmental cows. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of CSN2-CSN3 (beta-kappa-casein) haplotypes, BLG (beta-lactoglobulin) genotypes, content of milk protein fractions, and protein composition on coagulation properties of milk (MCP). Rennet coagulation time (RCT) and curd firmness (a(30)) were measured using a computerized renneting meter, and the contents of major milk protein fractions were quantified by reversed-phase HPLC in individual milk samples of 2,167 Simmental cows. Cow genotypes at CSN2, CSN3, and BLG were ascertained by reversed-phase HPLC, and CSN2-CSN3 haplotype probabilities were estimated for each cow. Phenotypes for MCP were regressed on CSN2-CSN3 haplotype probabilities  using linear models that also included the effects of herd-test-day, parity, days in milk, pH, somatic cell score, renneting meter sensor, sire of the cow, BLG genotype, and content of major protein fractions or, alternatively, protein composition. When the statistical model did not account for protein fraction contents or protein composition, haplotypes carrying CSN3 B were associated with  shorter RCT and greater a(30) compared with those carrying CSN3 A. Haplotypes carrying CSN2 B had the effect of decreasing RCT and increasing a(30) relative to haplotype A(2)A. When effects of protein fractions content or protein composition were added to the model, no difference across haplotypes due to CSN3 and CSN2 alleles was observed for MCP, with the exception of the effect of CSN2 B on RCT,  which remained markedly favorable. Hence, the effect of CSN3 B on MCP is related  to a variation in protein composition caused by the allele-specific expression of kappa-casein, rather than to a direct role of the protein variant on the coagulation process. In addition, the favorable effect exerted by CSN2 B on a(30) was caused by the increased beta-casein content in milk. Conversely, CSN2 B is likely to exert a direct genetic effect on RCT, which does not depend upon variation of beta-casein content associated with CSN2 B. Increased RCT was observed for milk yielded by BLG BB cows, even when models accounted for protein  composition. Rennet clotting time was favorably affected by kappa-casein content  and percentage of kappa-casein to total casein, whereas a(30) increased when contents and percentages of beta-CN and kappa-CN increased. Changes of milk protein composition and allele frequency at casein and whey protein genes affect  variation of MCP.

20662159	Association of SNPs on CAPN1 and CAST genes with tenderness in Nellore cattle. We examined whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the calpain (CAPN)  and calpastatin (CAST) genes, described from Bos primigenius taurus, are polymorphic in Nellore cattle. We also looked for a possible association of linkage disequilibrium of this polymorphism with tenderness of the longissimus dorsi muscle after 7, 14 and 21 days of postmortem aging in 638 purebred Nellore  bulls. Meat tenderness was measured as Warner-Bratzler shear force. Additive and  dominance effects were tested for SNPs of the three genotypic classes; the substitution effect was tested for SNPs with missing genotypic classes. Genotypic and gene frequencies were also calculated for the different SNPs. An increase in  tenderness was observed from 7 to 21 days; the average values for shear force at  7, 14 and 21 days of aging were 5.92 +/- 0.06, 4.92 +/- 0.05, and 4.38 +/- 0.04 kg, respectively. All markers showed polymorphism, but there was no CC genotype for CAPN316, and few animals showed the AA genotype for CAPN530. The alleles CAPN4751, UOGCAST1, and WSUCAST were found to have additive and dominance effects for shear force at 7, 14 and 21 days, while CAPN316 showed a substitution effect  for shear force at 7 and 21 days. An additive-by-additive epistatic interaction was observed between CAPN4751 and markers on the CAST gene. In conclusion, these  markers should be considered for use in breeding programs.

20665289	Two novel coding SNPs of SREBP1c gene are associated with body weight and average daily gain in bovine. It is known that the SREBP1c gene is an important gene responsible for adipogenesis and regulation of the expression of genes controlling fatty acid biosynthesis. Its expression levels increase in parallel with obesity. Therefore, the present study focused on screening the genetic variation within bovine SREBP1c gene and analyzing its effect on growth traits in 1035 individuals belonging to four Chinese cattle breeds (QC, NY, JX, CH) using PCR-SSCP, DNA sequencing, and forced PCR-RFLP methods. The results revealed two novel mutations: NC_007317: g. 10781 C > A (457aa), 10914 G > A (502aa). Association analysis with growth traits in the Nangyang breed indicated that: The SNPs in the bovine SREBP1c gene had significant effects on body weight and average daily gain at birth, 6 and 12 months old (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). Therefore, these results suggest that the SREBP1c gene is a strong candidate gene that affects growth traits in cattle.

20665291	Markers on bovine chromosome 20 associated with carcass quality and composition traits and incidence of contracting infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis. The objective of this study was to use single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) located on bovine chromosome 20 to fine map a previously identified QTL associated with the incidence of infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis (IBK). Crossbred steers (GPE 7; n = 539) derived from sires of 7 Bos taurus breeds and having veterinary records related to IBK were used to test the association of a total of 105 SNP located under the most relevant region of the QTL. Five SNP were significantly associated with IBK (P < 0.05), as animals inheriting differing genotypes from individual SNP exhibited significantly different incidence rates of IBK. The population also had numerous other phenotypes, supporting evaluation  of association of the 105 markers with carcass traits to identify potential antagonistic effects of implementing a marker-assisted selection program for IBK  susceptibility. An association of 2 SNP for marbling and tenderness was identified, along with 3 SNP associated with the percentage of carcasses classified as choice. Four SNP were significantly associated with fat yield, 2 SNP with longissimus muscle area, and 2 additional SNP with dressing percentage.  The association of these markers indicates that the evaluated QTL region may, in  fact, harbor the causative mutations responsible for the variation observed in IBK susceptibility and carcass quality and composition traits. Thus, further evaluation of SNP in this region is necessary in order to identify mutations accounting for the largest degree of variation for IBK and carcass traits.

20670403	Association of bovine leptin polymorphisms with energy output and energy storage  traits in progeny tested Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle sires. BACKGROUND: Leptin modulates appetite, energy expenditure and the reproductive axis by signalling via its receptor the status of body energy stores to the brain. The present study aimed to quantify the associations between 10 novel and  known single nucleotide polymorphisms in genes coding for leptin and leptin receptor with performance traits in 848 Holstein-Friesian sires, estimated from performance of up to 43,117 daughter-parity records per sire. RESULTS: All single nucleotide polymorphisms were segregating in this sample population and none deviated (P > 0.05) from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Complete linkage disequilibrium existed between the novel polymorphism LEP-1609, and the previously identified polymorphisms LEP-1457 and LEP-580. LEP-2470 associated (P  < 0.05) with milk protein concentration and calf perinatal mortality. It had a tendency to associate with milk yield (P < 0.1). The G allele of LEP-1238 was associated (P < 0.05) with reduced milk fat concentration, reduced milk protein concentration, longer gestation length and tended to associate (P < 0.1) with an  increase in calving difficulty, calf perinatal mortality and somatic cells in the milk. LEP-963 exhibited an association (P < 0.05) with milk fat concentration, milk protein concentration, calving difficulty and gestation length. It also tended to associate with milk yield (P < 0.1). The R25C SNP associated (P < 0.05) with milk fat concentration, milk protein concentration, calving difficulty and length of gestation. The T allele of the Y7F SNP significantly associated with reduced angularity (P < 0.01) and reduced milk protein yield (P < 0.05). There was also a tendency (P < 0.1) for Y7F to associate with increased body condition  score, reduced milk yield and shorter gestation (P < 0.1). A80V associated with reduced survival in the herd (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Several leptin polymorphisms (LEP-2470, LEP-1238, LEP-963, Y7F and R25C) associated with the energetically expensive process of lactogenesis. Only SNP Y7F associated with energy storage. Associations were also observed between leptin polymorphisms and calving difficulty, gestation length and calf perinatal  mortality. The lack of an association between the leptin variants investigated with calving interval in this large data set would question the potential importance of these leptin variants, or indeed leptin, in selection for improved  fertility in the Holstein-Friesian dairy cow.

20709461	Assessment of GH1, CAPN1 and CAST polymorphisms as markers of carcass and meat traits in Bos indicus and Bos taurus-Bos indicus cross beef cattle. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of bovine GH1, CAPN1 and CAST gene polymorphisms on carcass and meat traits in Nellore and Nellore x Bos taurus beef cattle. Three hundred animals were genotyped for GH1/MspI (TC/G in intron 3), CAPN316 (AF_252504.2:g.5709C>G) and CAST/RsaI (AY_008267.1:g282C>G) and phenotyped for rib eye area, backfat thickness, intramuscular fat, shear force (SF), and myofibrillar fragmentation index (MFI). No significant associations were observed between the GH1/MspI and CAST/RsaI polymorphisms and phenotypes, although the relation between the CAST/RsaI genotypes and meat tenderness evaluated by MFI approached significant. The fact that the CAPN316 polymorphism did not show adequate segregation in Nellore cattle confirms the difficulty of using this marker in breeding programs of different Bos indicus breeds. However, the positive results of the association analysis obtained for Nellore x B. taurus crosses contributed to the validation of previous findings.

20812193	IGF-I gene polymorphism, but not its blood concentration, is associated with milk fat and protein in Holstein dairy cows. We estimated the allele and genotype frequencies of IGF-I/SnaBI gene polymorphism and the concentration of this protein in Holstein dairy cows. We also examined the association with milk yield (305-day milk yield) and milk components (fat and protein percentage, and 305-day milk protein and fat yield). Blood IGF-I levels were measured and genotyping was performed on 250 Holstein cows of four different herds. In the association studies, traits of interest were analyzed using the GLM procedure of SAS; means of the IGF-I level among genotypes were compared by the LSMeans test. The AB and AA genotypes were the most (0.583-0.661) and least (0.083-0.192) frequent in the herds, respectively; the frequency of the BB genotype ranged from 0.201 to 0.333. The frequency of the A allele ranged from 0.375 to 0.495, while the frequency of the B allele ranged from 0.504 to 0.625, being the dominant allele. The mean level of IGF-I was 107 +/- 22 ng/mL for all groups, without any significant correlation with the production traits. Association of IGF-I/SnaBI genotypes with percentage of fat and protein in the milk was relatively high (P < 0.1 and P < 0.05, respectively); the AB genotype was superior to AA and BB genotypes. We concluded that this marker should be considered for milk component selection in Holstein dairy cattle.

20812196	A novel polymorphism of the MYPN gene and its association with meat quality traits in Bos taurus. Myopalladin (MYPN) is a multifunctional protein that maintains sarcomeric integrity and regulates Z-line structure. It is an important candidate gene for meat quality selection through marker-assisted selection. Using PCR-RFLP technology, we discovered a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (A1795G in exon  9) of the MYPN gene. Allele frequencies of this SNP were investigated and evaluated by the chi(2) test in 660 cattle populations in China; only the Nanyang population was not in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Gene heterozygosity, effective  allele number and polymorphism information content of the bovine MYPN locus in seven populations varied from 0.3888 to 0.4998, 1.6360 to 1.9992, and 0.3132 to 0.3749, respectively. We also looked for a potential association of this SNP with ultrasound traits in 399 individuals and found a significant effect on the ultrasound loin-muscle area. Meat quality traits were analyzed in another 61 Qinchuan individuals to analyze associations with genotype. Animals with the genotype GG had higher mean values for loin-eye area (P < 0.05) and water-holding capacity (P < 0.01) than those with AA or AG genotypes. We conclude that this SNP of the MYPN gene has potential as a genetic marker for meat quality traits in cattle reproduction and breeding.

20822563	Single nucleotide polymorphisms at the imprinted bovine insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) locus are associated with dairy performance in Irish Holstein-Friesian cattle. The imprinted insulin-like growth factor 2 gene (IGF2) encodes a fetal mitogenic  hormone protein (IGF-II) and has previously been shown to be associated with performance in dairy cattle. In this study we assessed genotype-phenotype associations between four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located within the bovine IGF2 locus on chromosome 29 and a range of performance traits related  to milk production, animal growth and body size, fertility and progeny survival in 848 progeny-tested Irish Holstein-Friesian sires. Two of the four SNPs (rs42196909 and IGF2.g-3815A>G), which were in strong linkage disequilibrium (r2  = 0995), were associated with milk yield (P  001) and milk protein yield (P   005); the rs42196901 SNP was also associated (P  005) with milk fat yield. Associations (P  005) with milk fat percentage and milk protein percentage were observed at the rs42196901 and IGF2.g-3815A>G SNPs, respectively. The rs42196909  and IGF2.g-3815A>G SNPs were also associated with progeny carcass conformation (P  005), while an association (P  001) with progeny carcass weight was observed at the rs42194733 SNP locus. None of the four SNPs were associated with body size, fertility and progeny survival. These findings support previous work which  suggests that the IGF2 locus is an important biological regulator of milk production in dairy cattle and add to an accumulating body of research showing that imprinted genes influence many complex performance traits in cattle.

20826071	Associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms in multiple candidate genes  and carcass and meat quality traits in a commercial Angus-cross population. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of 28 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in 10 candidate genes previously shown to be associated with  quality traits in pigs and cattle. The data set comprised 28 traits recorded on a commercial population of 536 Aberdeen Angus-cross beef cattle. Among the traits,  20 were carcass and sirloin quality related, one mechanical measure of tenderness, and the remaining seven were taste panel assessed sensory traits. The candidate genes studied included growth hormone (GH) and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). Association analysis showed that 13 of the 28 SNPs were significantly associated with at least one of the traits. Some of these were novel (POMC and mechanical tenderness), whilst others confirmed previous results (GH and eye muscle length). Following validation in other populations and breeds, these markers could be incorporated into breeding programs to increase the rate of improvement in carcass and meat quality traits.

20842439	Novel SNPs in the ATP1B2 gene and their associations with milk yield, milk composition and heat-resistance traits in Chinese Holstein cows. Genetic association analysis was applied to examine the effect of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase beta 2 subunit (ATP1B2) gene on rectal temperature, milk traits, K(+) levels and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (NKA) activity in the red blood cells of 1001 Chinese Holstein cows under normal and heat-stress conditions. We detected two novel single nucleotide polymorphisms, G2258A and C2833T, in the second and fourth introns, respectively, of ATP1B2. G2258A significantly affected milk fat content (P < 0.05) and 305-day milk yield (P < 0.01), but not milk protein content. C2833T significantly affected milk protein content (P < 0.01) and 305-day milk yield (P < 0.05), but not milk fat content. Calculated gene substitution effects suggested that A to G substitution in G2258A, and T to C substitution in C2833T, positively affected milk fat content, 305-day milk yield  and somatic cell score, but negatively affected milk protein content. We also detected significant variation in milk fat content, milk protein content, 305-day milk yield and somatic cell scores (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) among the nine ATP1B2 haplotypes. Under heat-stress, the C2833T polymorphism was significantly related  to rectal temperature (P < 0.01), red blood cell K(+) levels, NKA activity and milk yield (P < 0.05). Cows with the TT genotype showed the desirable characteristics of low rectal temperature and red blood cell K(+), low decline rate in milk yield and red blood cell NKA activity. This study suggests that the  ATP1B2 single nucleotide polymorphism C2833T is a genetic marker of heat-resistance traits in Chinese Holstein cows.

20852082	Effects of bovine fatty acid synthase, stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturase, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1, and growth hormone gene polymorphisms on fatty acid composition and carcass traits in Japanese Black cattle. The quality of fat is an important factor in defining the quality of meat. Fat quality is determined by the composition of fatty acids. Among lipid metabolism-related genes, including fatty acid synthesis genes, several genetic variations have been reported in the bovine fatty acid synthase (FASN), stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1), and GH genes. In the present study, we evaluated the single and epistatic effects of 5 genetic variations (4 SNP and 1 insertion/deletion) in 4 genes (FASN, SCD, SREBP1, and GH) on the fatty acid composition of the longissimus thoracis muscle and carcass and meat quality traits in 480 commercial Japanese Black cattle. Significant single effects of FASN, SCD, and GH(L127V) polymorphisms on the fatty acid composition of the longissimus thoracis muscle were detected. The A293V polymorphism of SCD had the largest effect on myristic acid (C14:0, P < 0.001), myristoleic acid (C14:1, P < 0.001), stearic acid (C18:0, P < 0.001), oleic acid (C18:1, P < 0.001), and MUFA (P < 0.001). Polymorphisms in the FASN, SCD, and SREBP1 genes showed no effect on any meat yield trait. There were no significant epistatic effects on fatty acid composition among pairs of the 3 genes (FASN, SCD, and SREBP1) involved in fatty  acid synthesis. No epistatic interactions (P > 0.1) were detected between FASN and SCD for any carcass trait. When the genotypes of 3 markers (FASN, SCD, and GH(L127V)) were substituted from the lesser effect allele to the greater effect allele, the proportion of C18:1 increased by 4.46%. More than 20% of the genetic  variance in the C18:1 level could be accounted for by these 3 genetic markers. The present results revealed that polymorphisms in 2 fatty acid synthesis genes (FASN and SCD) independently influenced fatty acid composition in the longissimus thoracis muscle. These results suggest that SNP in the FASN and SCD genes are useful markers for the improvement of fatty acid composition in commercial Japanese Black cattle.

20855021	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the bovine interleukin-12 and interleukin-23 receptor genes and their associations with health and production traits in Holstein cows. Interleukin-12 (IL-12) and interleukin-23 (IL-23) are proinflammatory cytokines produced by macrophages and dendritic cells in response to infection with intracellular pathogens. The IL-12 receptor (IL-12R) is a heterodimer composed of 2 subunits, 1 and 2. The IL-23 receptor (IL-23R) is a heterodimer composed of the IL-12R1 subunit and a unique IL-23R subunit. Given the importance of IL-12 and IL-23 for modulating inflammation and the host immune response, the IL-12 and IL-23 receptor genes may be suitable candidate genes for studying disease resistance in dairy cattle. We hypothesize that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) exist within these genes and that they contribute to variation in health and production traits in dairy cattle. To investigate this, a selective DNA pool  was constructed using bull semen based on the estimated breeding values for somatic cell score (SCS), an indicator trait used to achieve genetic improvement  for resistance to mastitis. Gene segments were amplified from this pool by PCR and the amplicons were sequenced to reveal SNP. A total of 10 SNP, including 2 in IL-12R1, 5 in IL-12R2, and 3 in IL-23R were identified. The SNP (n=5) were found in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) putative promoter regions of the genes, and SNP IL-23R c.1714A>C was a nonsynonymous SNP. Canadian Holstein bulls (n=492) were genotyped using Sequenom MassARRAY (Sequenom Inc., San Diego, CA). No association was found with SCS based on bull deregressed estimated breeding values for SCS; however, associations of SNP in the IL-12R2 gene (c.-511A>G, c.87A>G, c.2957A>C) were found with milk and protein yield. Further investigation will be required to elucidate the biological and practical relevance of these SNP.

20855026	A genome scan for quantitative trait loci affecting milk somatic cell score in Israeli and Italian Holstein cows by means of selective DNA pooling with single-  and multiple-marker mapping. Mastitis is an important and common dairy cattle disease affecting milk yield, quality, and consumer safety as well as cheese yields and quality. Animal welfare and residues of the antibiotics used to treat mastitis cause public concern. Considerable genetic variation may allow selection for increased resistance to mastitis. Because of high genetic correlation to milk somatic cell score (SCS), SCS can serve as a surrogate trait for mastitis resistance. The present study intended to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting SCS in Israeli and Italian Holstein dairy cattle (IsH and ItH, respectively), using selective DNA pooling with single and multiple marker mapping. Milk samples of 4,788 daughters  of 6 IsH and 7 ItH sires were used to construct sire-family high- and low-tail pools, which were genotyped at 123 (IsH) and 133 (ItH) microsatellite markers. Shadow correction was used to obtain pool allele frequency estimates. Frequency difference between the tails and empirical standard error of D, SE(D), were used  to obtain P-values. All markers significant by single marker mapping were also significant by multiple marker mapping, but not vice versa. Combining both populations, 22 QTL on 21 chromosomes were identified; all corresponded to previous reports in the literature. Confidence intervals were set by chi-squared  drop method. Heterozygosity of QTL was estimated at 44.2%. Allele substitution effects ranged from 1,782 to 4,930 cells/mL in estimated breeding value somatic cell count units. Most (80%) of the observed variation in estimated breeding value somatic cell score could be explained by the QTL identified under the stringent criteria. The results found here can be used as a basis for further genome-wide association studies for the same trait.

20857204	Association between IGF-IR, m-calpain and UCP-3 gene polymorphisms and growth traits in Nanyang cattle. The objective of this study was to estimate the allele and genotype frequencies of the IGF-IR/TaqI, m-calpain/HhaI, and UCP-3/BglI polymorphisms and to determine associations between these polymorphisms and growth traits in Chinese indigenous  cattle breeds. Genotyping was performed on 321 animals including 135 Nanyang, 80  Qinchuan, and 106 Jiaxian cattle. No significant differences in growth traits were observed between the genotypes of IGF-IR/TaqI polymorphism in Nanyang cattle. The m-calpain/HhaI, and UCP-3/BglI polymorphisms were associated with body weight, withers height, and body length of 6 months (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01),  body length of 18 months (P < 0.05), and body length and heart girth of 24 months (P < 0.01) in Nanyang cattle. In addition, Nanyang cattle aged 12 months with AB  genotype of m-calpain/HhaI polymorphism had higher body length and heart girth than those with BB genotype (P < 0.01). The withers height were greater (P < 0.01) in Nanyang cattle aged 12 months with genotype AB of UCP-3/BglI polymorphism than those with genotype BB. The Nanyang cattle aged 24 months with  genotype AA had higher withers height than those with genotype BB (P < 0.05). In  conclusion, the m-calpain/HhaI and UCP-3/BglI polymorphisms may be used as DNA markers for selection in the breeding process of Nanyang cattle.

20880337	DNA variation in the gene ELTD1 is associated with tick burden in cattle. Ticks and tick-born diseases are major constraints on cattle production in tropical and subtropical regions in the world. Previously, we identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with tick resistance on bovine chromosome 3 at approximately 70 Mb. In this study, we genotyped a dairy (n = 1133) and a beef (n = 774) sample to confirm the association of the intronic SNP  rs29019303 and its gene (ELTD1) with tick burden. We genotyped 18 additional SNPs in a region of 181 kb and found that rs29019303 was significantly (P < 0.05) associated with tick burden in both samples with the same favourable allele. A second SNP in this same genomic region was also significantly associated with tick burden in each sample. The associations using haplotypes were stronger than  for single markers, including a haplotype of nine tag SNPs that was highly significantly (P = 0.0008) associated with tick counts in the dairy animals. This haplotype and two others were significant after Bonferroni correction for multiple testing. The estimated size of the effects was close to 0.9% of the residual variance in both samples tested.

20942903	DNA sequence polymorphisms in a panel of eight candidate bovine imprinted genes and their association with performance traits in Irish Holstein-Friesian cattle. BACKGROUND: Studies in mice and humans have shown that imprinted genes, whereby expression from one of the two parentally inherited alleles is attenuated or completely silenced, have a major effect on mammalian growth, metabolism and physiology. More recently, investigations in livestock species indicate that genes subject to this type of epigenetic regulation contribute to, or are associated with, several performance traits, most notably muscle mass and fat deposition. In the present study, a candidate gene approach was adopted to assess 17 validated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and their association with a  range of performance traits in 848 progeny-tested Irish Holstein-Friesian artificial insemination sires. These SNPs are located proximal to, or within, the bovine orthologs of eight genes (CALCR, GRB10, PEG3, PHLDA2, RASGRF1, TSPAN32, ZIM2 and ZNF215) that have been shown to be imprinted in cattle or in at least one other mammalian species (i.e. human/mouse/pig/sheep). RESULTS: Heterozygosities for all SNPs analysed ranged from 0.09 to 0.46 and significant deviations from Hardy-Weinberg proportions (P  0.01) were observed at four loci. Phenotypic associations (P  0.05) were observed between nine SNPs  proximal to, or within, six of the eight analysed genes and a number of performance traits evaluated, including milk protein percentage, somatic cell count, culled cow and progeny carcass weight, angularity, body conditioning score, progeny carcass conformation, body depth, rump angle, rump width, animal stature, calving difficulty, gestation length and calf perinatal mortality. Notably, SNPs within the imprinted paternally expressed gene 3 (PEG3) gene cluster were associated (P  0.05) with calving, calf performance and fertility traits, while a single SNP in the zinc finger protein 215 gene (ZNF215) was associated with milk protein percentage (P  0.05), progeny carcass weight (P  0.05), culled cow carcass weight (P  0.01), angularity (P  0.01), body depth (P  0.01), rump width (P  0.01) and animal stature (P  0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Of the eight candidate bovine imprinted genes assessed, DNA sequence polymorphisms in six of these genes (CALCR, GRB10, PEG3, RASGRF1, ZIM2 and ZNF215) displayed associations with several of the phenotypes included for analyses. The genotype-phenotype associations detected here are further supported by the biological function of these six genes, each of which plays important roles in mammalian growth, development and physiology. The associations between SNPs within the imprinted PEG3 gene cluster and traits related to calving, calf performance and gestation length suggest that this domain on chromosome 18 may play a role regulating pre-natal growth and development and fertility. SNPs within the bovine ZNF215 gene were associated with bovine growth and body conformation traits and studies in humans have revealed that the human ZNF215 ortholog belongs to the imprinted gene cluster associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome--a genetic disorder characterised by growth abnormalities. Similarly, the data presented here suggest that the ZNF215 gene may have an important role in regulating bovine growth. Collectively, our results support previous work showing that (candidate) imprinted genes/loci contribute to heritable variation in bovine performance traits and suggest that DNA sequence polymorphisms within these genes/loci represents an important reservoir of genomic markers for future  genetic improvement of dairy and beef cattle populations.

20951702	Association analysis between variants in bovine NPY gene and growth traits in Nanyang cattle (Bos tarus). Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most potent orexigenic factors that is implicated in the control of feeding behavior and energy homeostasis. Four Chinese indigenous cattle breeds (n=338) were used to detect single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the coding regions with their intron-exon boundaries and  the proximal flanking regions of NPY gene by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing. Five novel SNPs (38017 C>G, 34240 C>A, 34168 G>A, 32463 A>C and 32302 C>G) were identified. Polymorphisms of P3 lous in NPY gene, containing SNP4 and SNP5, were  associated with body length and chest girth in Nanyang cattle aged 6, 12 and 18 months (P<0.05), but they had no significant effect on the two growth traits in Nanyang cattle aged 24 months (P>0.05). The results open a new field of study and extend the spectrum of genetic variation of the bovine NPY gene, which might contribute to cattle genetic resources and breeding.

21048968	Genome wide association studies for milk production traits in Chinese Holstein population. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) based on high throughput SNP genotyping technologies open a broad avenue for exploring genes associated with milk production traits in dairy cattle. Motivated by pinpointing novel quantitative trait nucleotide (QTN) across Bos Taurus genome, the present study is to perform  GWAS to identify genes affecting milk production traits using current state-of-the-art SNP genotyping technology, i.e., the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip. In the analyses, the five most commonly evaluated milk production traits are involved, including milk yield (MY), milk fat yield (FY), milk protein yield (PY), milk fat percentage (FP) and milk protein percentage (PP). Estimated  breeding values (EBVs) of 2,093 daughters from 14 paternal half-sib families are  considered as phenotypes within the framework of a daughter design. Association tests between each trait and the 54K SNPs are achieved via two different analysis approaches, a paternal transmission disequilibrium test (TDT)-based approach (L1-TDT) and a mixed model based regression analysis (MMRA). In total, 105 SNPs were detected to be significantly associated genome-wise with one or multiple milk production traits. Of the 105 SNPs, 38 were commonly detected by both methods, while four and 63 were solely detected by L1-TDT and MMRA, respectively. The majority (86 out of 105) of the significant SNPs is located within the reported QTL regions and some are within or close to the reported candidate genes. In particular, two SNPs, ARS-BFGL-NGS-4939 and BFGL-NGS-118998, are located close to the DGAT1 gene (160bp apart) and within the GHR gene, respectively. Our findings herein not only provide confirmatory evidences for previously findings, but also explore a suite of novel SNPs associated with milk  production traits, and thus form a solid basis for eventually unraveling the causal mutations for milk production traits in dairy cattle.

21054834	Polymorphisms in bovine immune genes and their associations with somatic cell count and milk production in dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: Mastitis, an inflammation of the mammary gland, is a major source of  economic loss on dairy farms. The aim of this study was to quantify the associations between two previously identified polymorphisms in the bovine toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1) genes and mammary health indictor traits in (a) 246 lactating dairy cow contemporaries representing five breeds from one research farm and (b) 848 Holstein-Friesian bulls that represent a large proportion of the Irish dairy germplasm. To expand the study, a further 14 polymorphisms in immune genes were included for association studies in the bull population. RESULTS: TLR4-2021 associated (P < 0.05) with both milk protein and fat percentage in late lactation (P < 0.01) within the cow cohort. No association was observed between this polymorphism and either yield or composition of milk within the bull population. CXCR1-777 significantly associated (P < 0.05) with fat yield in the bull population and tended to associate (P < 0.1) with somatic cell score  (SCS) in the cows genotyped. CD14-1908 A allele was found to associate with increased (P < 0.05) milk fat and protein yield and also tended to associate with increased (P < 0.1) milk yield. A SERPINA1 haplotype with superior genetic merit  for milk protein yield and milk fat percentage (P < 0.05) was also identified. CONCLUSION: Of the sixteen polymorphisms in seven immune genes genotyped, just CXCR1-777 tended to associate with SCS, albeit only in the on-farm study. The lack of an association between the polymorphisms with SCS in the Holstein-Friesian data set would question the potential importance of these variants in selection for improved mastitis resistance in the Holstein-Friesian cow.

21059885	Genome-wide association study identifies two major loci affecting calving ease and growth-related traits in cattle. Identifying quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying complex, low-heritability traits is notoriously difficult. Prototypical for such traits, calving ease is an important breeding objective of cattle (Bos taurus)-improving programs. To identify QTL underlying calving ease, we performed a genome-wide association study using estimated breeding values (EBVs) as highly heritable phenotypes for paternal calving ease (pCE) and related traits. The massively structured study population consisted of 1800 bulls of the German Fleckvieh (FV) breed. Two pCE-associated regions on bovine chromosomes (BTA) 14 and 21 (P = 5.72  10(-15)  and P = 2.27  10(-8), respectively) were identified using principal components analysis to correct for population stratification. The two most significantly associated SNPs explain 10% of the EBV variation. Since marker alleles with negative effect on pCE have positive effects on growth-related traits, the QTL may exert their effects on the birthing process through fetal growth traits. The  QTL region on BTA14 corresponds to a human chromosome (HSA) region that is associated with growth characteristics. The HSA region corresponding to the BTA21 pCE QTL is maternally imprinted and involved in the Prader-Willi and Angelman syndromes. Resequencing of positional candidate genes on BTA14 revealed a highly  significantly (P = 1.96  10(-14)) associated polymorphism ablating a polyadenylation signal of the gene encoding ribosomal protein S20 (RPS20). Our study demonstrates the leverage potential of EBVs in unraveling the genetic architecture of lowly heritable traits.

21071888	Relationships between the first ovulation postpartum and polymorphism in genes relating to function of immunity, metabolism and reproduction in high-producing dairy cows. The decrease in fertility and conception rates of high-producing dairy cows is one of the major negative impacts for today's producers. The recovery of ovarian  activity postpartum is affected by the status of immunity, metabolism and reproduction and plays a critical role in subsequent fertility after parturition  in the cow. In the present study we investigated the relationships between polymorphisms in genes relating to the above functions and the first postpartum ovulation as a marker of the recovery of ovarian function in the cow. In immune function related-factors, the occurrence of first postpartum ovulation within 3 weeks in the C/C genotypes of tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) exon (55.4%) and the A/G genotypes of TNF promoter (55.4%) was significantly higher than that in T/T  genotypes of TNF exon (14.3%) and A/A genotypes of TNF promoter (14.3%). Moreover, anovulatory cows with the T/T genotype of TNF exon and the A/A genotype of TNF promoter tended to have a prolonged days open compared with those of the other genotypes of TNF polymorphisms. In metabolic function-related factors, ovulatory and anovulatory cows had a different distribution for alleles  of the growth hormone receptor, but there were no significant differences in genotype and allele frequency of insulin-like growth factor-I polymorphism. No significant relationships were found between ovarian function after parturition and polymorphisms for reproduction-related genes. In conclusion, polymorphisms of TNF gene both in exon and promoter regions have a strong association with the early first ovulation within 3 weeks after parturition in the high-producing dairy cow. Taken together, polymorphisms of TNF gene could be strongly related to early first ovulation after parturition, thus being an effective tool of selection for improving reproductive performance in the high-producing dairy cow.

21094769	SP110 as a novel susceptibility gene for Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis infection in cattle. The intracellular pathogen resistance 1 (Ipr1) gene has been reported to play a role in mediating innate immunity in a mouse model of Mycobacterium tuberculosis  infection, and polymorphisms of its human ortholog, SP110 nuclear body protein, have been suggested to be associated with tuberculosis. Thus, the bovine SP110 gene was considered to be a promising candidate for a genetic association study of bovine paratuberculosis, or Johne's disease, a chronic granulomatous enteritis caused by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP). Initially, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) within the bovine SP110 gene were identified, and  subsequently a population-based genetic association study was carried out. Seventeen new SNP along the SP110 gene were identified in Holstein-Friesian cattle, and 6 more were compiled from public databases. A total of 14 SNP were included in the association study of 2 independent populations. The SNP c.587A>G  was found to be significantly associated with MAP infection, with the major allele A appearing to confer greater disease susceptibility in one of the analyzed populations. In addition, 2 haplotypes containing this SNP were also found to be associated with infection in the same population. The SNP c.587A>G is a nonsynonymous mutation that causes an amino acid change in codon 196 from asparagine to serine. In silico analyses point to SNP c.587A>G as a putative causal variant for susceptibility to MAP infection. The elucidation of the precise mechanism by which this SNP can exert its effect in the protein and, as a result, in the risk of infection, requires future functional analyses. Likewise,  the absence of genetic association in one of the analyzed populations renders it  necessary to carry out this study in other independent populations, with the aim  of substantiating the repeatability of the present results. Nevertheless, the present results deepen our understanding of the genetic basis of susceptibility and resistance mechanisms related to MAP infection in cattle and, in turn, constitute a step forward toward the implementation of marker-assisted selection  in breeding programs aimed at controlling paratuberculosis.

21106253	Three novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms of MBL1 gene in Chinese native cattle and their associations with milk performance traits. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL), a pattern recognizing serum protein, participates in the innate immune system of mammals as an opsonin. In humans, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MBL2 gene were found to cause various innate immune dysfunctions. In the present study, we discovered three single-nucleotide polymorphisms of the MBL1 gene in Chinese native cattle and analyzed their associations with milk traits. By screening the genetic variation of MBL1 in 1053 individuals of three Chinese native cattle breeds including China Holstein, Luxi  Yellow and Bohai Black using created restriction site-polymerase chain reaction (CRS-PCR), PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and DNA sequencing techniques, three new SNPs, g.855G>A, g.2651G>A and g.2686T>C, were found to have allele frequencies of 0-12.65%, 24.07-42.39% and 56.95-73.68%, respectively. While SNP g.855G>A is located within intron , the other two SNPs reside in the exon II region with one mutation being non-synonymous (GTT (Val)>ATT (Ile)) and the other synonymous (GCT (Ala)>GCC (Ala)). Among the 596 Chinese Holstein cattle with at least 3 lactation Dairy Herd Improvement (DHI) records, eight different haplotypes and 19 genotype combinations were detected. Statistical analyses revealed no correlation between either g.855G>A or g.2686T>C and somatic cell score (SCS), however significant association was found between g.2651G>A and SCS, suggesting a possible role of this SNP in the host response against mastitis. Our data also suggested that the combined genotypes of GGC/AAC  with the lowest SCS, AAT/AAT with the highest protein content and AGC/AGC with the highest 305-d milk yield were favorable combinations for mastitis resistance  and milk production traits. Therefore, GGC/AAC, AAT/AAT and AGC/AGC can be used as possible candidates for marker-assisted selection in the dairy cattle breeding program.

21110109	Single nucleotide polymorphisms, haplotypes and combined genotypes of LAP3 gene in bovine and their association with milk production traits. Leucine aminopeptidase 3 (LAP3) is an aminopeptidase which catalyses the removal  of N-terminal amino acids and is involved in protein maturation and degradation.  In this study, we detected the polymorphisms of LAP3 gene by polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing methods in 916 individuals from three Chinese cattle breeds including Chinese Holstein, Luxi Yellow and Bohai Black. One novel single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (g.24564G>A ss196003366) and four previously deposited SNPs in the GenBank  database (g.24794T>G, g.24803T>C, g.24846T>C, g.25415T>C) were detected. Three of the SNPs (g.24794T>G, g.24803T>C, g.24846T>C) were firstly found to be linked completely and regarded as a SNP g.24794M>N by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing in the tested breeds. The allelic frequencies and genetic indices of the SNPs were different in three Chinese cattle populations. The SNPs and their genetic effects on milk production traits in Chinese Holsteins were evaluated. Least squares analysis showed that cows with genotype MM had higher fat percentage and protein  percentage than genotype NN (P<0.05); and the cows with g.25415T>C-CC genotype had higher protein rate than ones with TT genotype (P<0.05). In addition, eight haplotypes and 23 combined genotypes were identified based on the nine genotypes  and the association between combined genotypes and milk production traits were analyzed. Statistic results showed that the cows with genotype combination MAT/MGC have higher protein and fat rate and lower SCS. Our finding demonstrated  that the LAP3 gene possibly contributed to conducting association analysis and can be used as molecular marker in milk production traits and other performance for animal breeding.

21113675	Polymorphisms of the IL8 gene correlate with milking traits, SCS and mRNA level in Chinese Holstein. To explore the relation of Interleukin-8 (IL8) gene polymorphism with immunity against mastitis in dairy cow, the polymorphism of IL8 gene was investigated in 610 Chinese Holstein cow from 30 bull families in a dairy farm in Shanghai using  polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) technique, and milk yield, milk fat percentage, milk protein percentage, 305 day  corrected milk yield, 305 day milk fat yield, 305 day milk protein yield and somatic cell score (SCS) were measured and analyzed, and the mRNA levels of IL8 genotypes in blood were detected by real-time PCR. The results showed that three  genotypes, KK, KA and AA were detected with frequencies of 0.187, 0.451, and 0.362, respectively. The gene frequencies of K and A were 0.412 and 0.588, respectively. The significant association of the IL8 mutations with milk yield, 305 day milk protein yield, 305 day corrected milk yield and 305 day milk fat yield, SCS, and significant association with milk protein percentage were identified, while their association with milk fat percentage were not significant. KK had higher milk yield, 305 day milk protein yield, 305 day corrected milk yield and 305 day milk fat yield than AA or KA, and the least square mean of SCS of KK was significantly lower than that of AA or KA. AA had significant lower milk protein yield than KK or KA. The relative IL8 mRNA level of KK in blood was the highest. These findings demonstrated that IL8 genotype significantly correlated with mastitis resistance and the locus could be a useful genetic marker for mastitis resistance selection and breeding in Chinese Holstein.

21117339	Quantitative trait loci for milk production and functional traits in two Danish Cattle breeds. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) in Danish Jersey and Danish Red cattle were independently mapped by least squares regression analysis. For Jersey breed, five grandsire families were genotyped for 186 markers on 16 chromosomes (BTAs). Eight traits analysed were milk yield (MY), fat percentage (FP), protein percentage (PP), clinical mastitis (CM), somatic cell score (SCS), maternal stillbirth, maternal calf size (MCS) and maternal calving difficulty. For Red breed, nine grandsire families were genotyped for 166 markers on 18 BTAs. Six traits analysed were MY, FP, PP, CM, SCS and female fertility. Nine and five QTL were detected in Jersey and Red breed, respectively, in across family tests. In Jersey breed, the  results indicate QTL for CM and MCS on BTA 3. Additionally, there is an indication of QTL for MCS and FP on BTA 1 and a tentative evidence for a QTL for  MY on BTA 26. There is a high risk of detected QTL being false positives. The detected QTL in Jersey breed indicate interesting results from a breeding perspective, but a practical application should await genome-wide association studies.

21127989	Effects of calpain genotypes on meat tenderness and carcass traits of Angus bulls. Relationships of the calpain system with meat tenderness and carcass traits were  examined for 94 purebred Angus bulls with genotypes of the calpain classified by  RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) and SSCP (Single strand conformation polymorphism) analysis. Designing of primers based on the calpain regulatory subunit (CAPNS) and u-calpian (CAPN1) genes. Bulls from 15 months of age were slaughtered, and carcass traits, including fat thickness (FAT); longissimus muscle area (LMA); percentage of kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (KPH); hot carcass weight (HCW); marbling score (MAR); and quality grade (QUL), were analyzed. Measurements regarding meat tenderness involved activities of calpastatin (CAC), u-calpain (UAC), m-calpain (MAC), Warner-Bratzler Shear Force  (WBS) and myofibril fragmentation index (MFI). Statistical significances of the calpain genotypes accounted for variations in MAR and QUL at CAPNS locus, and both loci explained variations of UAC and MAC. Significant mean differences in genotypes of CAPNS locus were found for MAR (BB > AB > AA) and QUL (AB > BB > AA). UAC showed significant correlations with MAC, CAC, MFI, FAT, and MAR, and we found that MAC correlated with WBS, FAT, HCW, MAR, and QUL. Strong positive correlation detected between LMA and HCW, and MAR and QUL, and a negative correlation between MFI and MAR was estimated. From the result it may be possible to use the calpain genotypes classified by RFLP and SSCP analysis in marker assisted selection programs to estimate UAC and MAC precisely regardless meat tenderness and to improve MAR and QUL of beef cattle.

21138580	Quantitative trait loci for variation in immune response to a Foot-and-Mouth Disease virus peptide. BACKGROUND: Infectious disease of livestock continues to be a cause of substantial economic loss and has adverse welfare consequences in both the developing and developed world. New solutions to control disease are needed and research focused on the genetic loci determining variation in immune-related traits has the potential to deliver solutions. However, identifying selectable markers and the causal genes involved in disease resistance and vaccine response  is not straightforward. The aims of this study were to locate regions of the bovine genome that control the immune response post immunisation. 195 F2 and backcross Holstein Charolais cattle were immunised with a 40-mer peptide derived  from foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). T cell and antibody (IgG1 and IgG2) responses were measured at several time points post immunisation. All experimental animals (F0, F1 and F2, n = 982) were genotyped with 165 microsatellite markers for the genome scan. RESULTS: Considerable variability in the immune responses across time was observed and sire, dam and age had significant effects on responses at specific time points. There were significant correlations within traits across time, and between IgG1 and IgG2 traits, also some weak correlations were detected between T cell and IgG2 responses. The whole genome scan detected 77 quantitative trait loci (QTL), on 22 chromosomes, including clusters of QTL on BTA 4, 5, 6, 20, 23 and 25. Two QTL reached 5% genome wide significance (on BTA 6 and 24) and one on  BTA 20 reached 1% genome wide significance. CONCLUSIONS: A proportion of the variance in the T cell and antibody response post immunisation with an FDMV peptide has a genetic component. Even though the antigen was relatively simple, the humoral and cell mediated responses were clearly under complex genetic control, with the majority of QTL located outside the MHC locus. The results suggest that there may be specific genes or loci that  impact on variation in both the primary and secondary immune responses, whereas other loci may be specifically important for early or later phases of the immune  response. Future fine mapping of the QTL clusters identified has the potential to reveal the causal variations underlying the variation in immune response observed.

21145173	Association analyses of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the LEP and SCD1 genes on the fatty acid profile of muscle fat in Simmental bulls. The aim was to investigate the effect of the genetic polymorphisms of leptin (LEP) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD1) genes on the fatty acid (FA) composition of the muscle of 103 Simmental bulls. Ten single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were detected in exons 2 and 3 of the LEP gene, two of them encoding non-synonymous mutations. Allelic substitution effects of all the SNP on 28 single fatty acids, monounsaturated (MUFA) and polyunsaturated (PUFA) and desaturation indexes were estimated. Both the SCD1 SNP, as well as three SNP of the leptin gene, affected, to different extents, the desaturation of FA into MUFA. Because it was previously proposed that leptin's metabolic action involves  down-regulation of SCD1, it is possible that, beyond the mere additive effect of  SCD1 gene on FA desaturation, the non-synonymous mutations in the leptin gene also contribute to the variability of FA composition in muscle fat.

21148784	Loci on Bos taurus chromosome 2 and Bos taurus chromosome 26 are linked with bovine respiratory disease and associated with persistent infection of bovine viral diarrhea virus. The objective of this study was to identify loci linked with bovine respiratory disease (BRD) and subsequently to determine if these same loci were associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus persistent infection (BVD-PI) in affected calves or their dams. A genome-wide linkage study using 312 microsatellites was conducted to identify loci linked with BRD in a Brahman  Hereford sire half-sib  family. Disease incidence was recorded from birth to slaughter by daily monitoring. Linkage was suggestive for a QTL on BTA2 (F = 7.31, P = 0.007) and BTA26 (F = 10.46, P = 0.001). Six and 7 markers were added and genotyped between  110 and 126 cM on BTA2 and between 42 and 72 cM on BTA26, respectively, in the intervals where linkage was found. These markers were used to reevaluate the Brahman  Hereford family and to evaluate 3 additional crossbred half-sib families. Linkage was found with BRD on BTA2 (F = 4.94, P < 0.01), with a peak at 110 cM, and on BTA26 (F = 4.03, P < 0.05), with peaks at 42 and 52 cM. The same markers were then tested for an association with BVD-PI in 1) BVD-PI calves compared with age-matched unaffected calves from the same herd or 2) dams with BVD-PI compared with age-matched unaffected calves. Sixty commercial beef cow-calf herds were tested for BVD-PI, and 79 calves from 8 ranches had BVD-PI. Four of 6 markers were associated (P = 4.8  10(-9) to P = 0.01) with BVD-PI on BTA2, and 4 of 7 markers were associated (P = 0.008 to P = 0.04) with BVD-PI on BTA26 when BVD-PI calves were compared with unaffected calves. The comparison of  BVD-PI dams with unaffected calves detected associations with BVD-PI for all markers tested on BTA2 (P = 3  10(-9) to P = 0.005) and for 3 of 7 markers on BTA26 (P = 1.4  10(-6) to P = 0.006).

21153925	Association of thyroglobulin gene variants with carcass and meat quality traits in beef cattle. Thyroid hormones play an important role in regulating metabolism and can affect homeostasis of fat deposition. The gene encoding thyroglobulin (TG), producing the precursor for thyroid hormones, has been proposed as a positional and functional candidate gene for a QTL with an effect on fat deposition. In the present study, we identified 6 novel SNPs at the 3' flanking region of the TG gene. The SNP marker association analysis indicated that the T354C, G392A, A430G  and T433G SNP markers were significantly associated with marbling score (P < 0.05). Animals with the new homozygote genotype had higher marbling score than those with the other genotypes. Otherwise, the linkage disequilibrium analysis indicated that these four SNPs were completely linked (r (2) = 1). Results from this study suggest that TG gene-specific SNP may be a useful marker for meat quality traits in future marker assisted selection programs in beef cattle.

21159195	Regulatory polymorphisms in the bovine Ankyrin 1 gene promoter are associated with tenderness and intramuscular fat content. BACKGROUND: Recent QTL and gene expression studies have highlighted ankyrins as positional and functional candidate genes for meat quality. Our objective was to  characterise the promoter region of the bovine ankyrin 1 gene and to test polymorphisms for association with sensory and technological meat quality measures. RESULTS: Seven novel promoter SNPs were identified in a 1.11 kb region of the ankyrin 1 promoter in Angus, Charolais and Limousin bulls (n = 15 per breed) as well as 141 crossbred beef animals for which meat quality data was available. Eighteen haplotypes were inferred with significant breed variation in haplotype frequencies. The five most frequent SNPs and the four most frequent haplotypes were subsequently tested for association with sensory and technological measures  of meat quality in the crossbred population. SNP1, SNP3 and SNP4 (which were subsequently designated regulatory SNPs) and SNP5 were associated with traits that contribute to sensorial and technological measurements of tenderness and texture; Haplotype 1 and haplotype 4 were oppositely correlated with traits contributing to tenderness (P < 0.05). While no single SNP was associated with intramuscular fat (IMF), a clear association with increased IMF and juiciness was observed for haplotype 2. CONCLUSION: The conclusion from this study is that alleles defining haplotypes 2  and 4 could usefully contribute to marker SNP panels used to select individuals with improved IMF/juiciness or tenderness in a genome-assisted selection framework.

21161888	Association of CAPN1 316, CAPN1 4751 and TG5 markers with bovine meat quality traits in Mexico. We examined allele and genotype frequencies for the molecular markers CAPN1 316,  CAPN1 4751 and TG5, and determined whether they are associated with beef quality  traits in Mexican cattle. One hundred and twenty-four longissimus dorsi muscle samples were collected from cattle from north, central and southern Mexico. CAPN1 316 and CAPN1 4751 frequencies were determined using the allelic discrimination assay and the TG5 marker was typed by PCR-RFLP. Meat quality traits included intramuscular fat content (IMF) and tenderness determined by Warner-Bratzler shear force (WBSF) at 24 h postmortem. The association test was made using a mixed model, including genotypes, genetic group, and sampling location as fixed effects. Least squares means and significant interactions were compared using least significant differences based on the mixed procedure. CAPN1 316 CC was found at a low frequency (0.03) and has been reported as a favorable genotype associated with tenderness meat. Genotype frequencies for CAPN1 4751 were similar in favorable (CC) and unfavorable (TT) genotypes (0.26 and 0.28, respectively). The TG5 CC genotype had a frequency of 0.73, while the TT genotype frequency was  0.01. The means for WBSF and IMF were 4.08  1.35 kg and 5.23  2.14%, respectively. Sampling site and the CAPN1 316 genotypes significantly affected WBSF (P < 0.05). Samples collected from Hermosillo, Sonora, had the lowest WBSF (P < 0.05), while those collected in Veracruz were toughest (WBSF = 5.267 kg). The effect of GG and TG5 genotypes on IMF was significant (P < 0.05). CAPN1 316 and TG5 markers were found to be significantly associated with beef quality traits and thus will be useful for Mexican beef characterization.

21165768	Novel SNPs of the bovine PRLR gene associated with milk production traits. The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within exon 10 of the prolactin receptor gene (PRLR) were detected in Chinese Holstein cows using polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing methods, and their genetic effects on milk production traits were evaluated in this study. Two newly detected SNPs (g.9206GA and g.9681CT) caused amino acid variations E378K and A536V, respectively, which were then preliminarily predicted at the topological level. Statistical results indicated that the two SNPs were significantly associated with milk yields, and cows with the combined genotype GGCC showed superior milk performance. A putative phosphorylation site was identified at residue 378K ([ST]--[RK]), which offers a partial explanation for the associations. These results suggest that the two novel SNPs within exon 10 of the PRLR gene associated with milk production traits are useful genetic markers in a selection program for Holstein dairy cattle.

21178177	Effects of polymorphisms in the calpastatin and -calpain genes on meat tenderness in 3 French beef breeds. The objectives of the study were to evaluate allelic frequencies and to test the  association of polymorphisms in the calpastatin (CAST) and -calpain (CAPN1) genes with meat tenderness in 3 French beef breeds. A total of 1,114 Charolais, 1,254 Limousin, and 981 Blonde d'Aquitaine purebred young bulls were genotyped for 3 SNP in the CAST gene and 4 SNP in the CAPN1 gene. Two of these markers, 1 in each gene, can be found in Australian or American commercial genetic tests. Others have previously been reported in American studies or are newly evidenced SNP. The quantitative traits studied were Warner-Bratzler shear force and a tenderness score evaluated by trained sensory panels. All the SNP were informative in the 3 breeds. Associations of individual markers or haplotypes with traits were analyzed. The results differed in the 3 breeds. The G allele of  a CAST marker (position 97574679 on Btau4.0) was found to exert a significant effect on the shear force (+0.18 phenotypic SD; RSD) and tenderness score (-0.22  RSD) in the Blonde d'Aquitaine breed. In the same breed, this marker was associated with another CAST SNP (position 97576054 on Btau4.0) such that the GA  haplotype appeared to be associated with tougher meat. Two CAPN1 markers (positions 45221250 and 45241089 on Btau4.0) had a significant effect on both traits in the Charolais breed (from |0.11| to |0.25| RSD). In the same breed, these markers were associated with another CAPN1 SNP (position 45219395 on Btau4.0) such that the ACA and AGG haplotypes appeared to be associated with a tender meat and a tougher meat, respectively. Consequently, the present results indicate that the effects of the markers studied are breed-specific and cannot be extended to all Bos taurus breeds. Further studies are also required to identify  other more appropriate markers for French beef breeds.

21183059	Genome-wide association study for calving traits in Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. A total of 22 quantitative trait loci (QTL) were detected on 19 chromosomes for direct and maternal calving traits in cattle using a genome-wide association study. Calving performance is affected by the genotypes of both the calf (direct  effect) and dam (maternal effect). To identify the QTL contributing these effects to calving characteristics, we performed a genome-wide association study using a  mixed-model analysis in Danish and Swedish Holstein cattle. The analysis incorporated 2,062 progeny-tested bulls, and 36,387 single nucleotide polymorphism markers on 29 bovine autosomes were analyzed for association with 14 calving traits. Strong evidence for the presence of QTL that affect calving traits was observed on chromosomes 4, 6, 12, 18, 20, and 25. The QTL intervals were generally smaller than those described in earlier linkage studies. The identification of calving trait-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms and mapping of the corresponding QTL in small chromosomal regions will facilitate the search for candidate calving performance genes and polymorphisms.

21184182	Effect of genetic variation of CEBPA gene on body measurement and carcass traits  of Qinchuan cattle. In our study, genetic variation in coding region of cattle CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha(namely CEBPA)gene was detected by PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing methods in 215 individuals from Qinchuan cattle breed. Two haplotypes (A and B) and three observed genotypes (AA, AB, and BB) were detected. The result of DNA sequence showed one mutation by comparisons with NC_007316. The mutation at nt963 (T>G) were located in coding region of the CEBPA gene. Associations between the CEBPA gene genetic variation and the carcass traits were revealed in Qinchuan cattle. Least squares analysis revealed a significant statistical effect of the CEBPA gene different genotypes on slaughter weight and carcass weight in Qinchuan cattle. Individuals with BB genotype showed higher slaughter weight and carcass weight than individuals with AA and AB genotypes. Therefore, these results suggest that the CEBPA gene is a strong candidate gene that affects carcass traits in Qinchuan cattle.

21198698	Exploration of relationships between production and fertility traits in dairy cattle via association studies of SNPs within candidate genes derived by expression profiling. The objective of this work was to integrate findings from functional genomics studies with genome-wide association studies for fertility and production traits  in dairy cattle. Association analyses of production and fertility traits with SNPs located within or close to 170 candidate genes derived from two gene expression studies and from the literature were performed. Data from 2294 Holstein bulls genotyped for 39557 SNPs were used. A total of 111 SNPs were located on chromosomal segments covered by a candidate gene. Allele substitution  effects for each SNP were estimated using a mixed model with a fixed effect of marker and a random polygenic effect. Assumed covariance was derived either from  marker or from pedigree information. Results from the analysis with the kinship matrix built from marker genotypes were more conservative than from the analysis  with the pedigree-derived relationship matrix. From sixteen SNPs with significant effects on both classes of traits, ten provided evidence of an antagonistic relationship between productivity and fertility. However, we found four SNPs with favourable effects on fertility and on yield traits, one SNP with favourable effects on fertility and percentage traits, and one SNP with antagonistic effects on two fertility traits. While most quantitative genetic studies have proven genetic antagonisms between yield and functional traits, improvements in both production and functionality may be possible when focusing on a few relevant SNPs. Investigations combining input from quantitative genetics and functional genomics with association analysis may be applied for the identification of such  SNPs.

21212230	Polymorphic regions affecting human height also control stature in cattle. Orthologous positions of 55 genes associated with height in four human populations were located on the bovine genome. Single nucleotide polymorphisms close to eight of these genes were significantly associated with stature in cattle (Bos taurus and Bos indicus). This suggests that these genes may contribute to controlling stature across mammalian species.

21214909	DNA sequence polymorphisms within the bovine guanine nucleotide-binding protein Gs subunit alpha (Gs)-encoding (GNAS) genomic imprinting domain are associated with performance traits. BACKGROUND: Genes which are epigenetically regulated via genomic imprinting can be potential targets for artificial selection during animal breeding. Indeed, imprinted loci have been shown to underlie some important quantitative traits in  domestic mammals, most notably muscle mass and fat deposition. In this candidate  gene study, we have identified novel associations between six validated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning a 97.6 kb region within the bovine guanine nucleotide-binding protein Gs subunit alpha gene (GNAS) domain on bovine  chromosome 13 and genetic merit for a range of performance traits in 848 progeny-tested Holstein-Friesian sires. The mammalian GNAS domain consists of a number of reciprocally-imprinted, alternatively-spliced genes which can play a major role in growth, development and disease in mice and humans. Based on the current annotation of the bovine GNAS domain, four of the SNPs analysed (rs43101491, rs43101493, rs43101485 and rs43101486) were located upstream of the  GNAS gene, while one SNP (rs41694646) was located in the second intron of the GNAS gene. The final SNP (rs41694656) was located in the first exon of transcripts encoding the putative bovine neuroendocrine-specific protein NESP55,  resulting in an aspartic acid-to-asparagine amino acid substitution at amino acid position 192. RESULTS: SNP genotype-phenotype association analyses indicate that the single intronic GNAS SNP (rs41694646) is associated (P  0.05) with a range of performance traits including milk yield, milk protein yield, the content of fat and protein in milk, culled cow carcass weight and progeny carcass conformation,  measures of animal body size, direct calving difficulty (i.e. difficulty in calving due to the size of the calf) and gestation length. Association (P  0.01) with direct calving difficulty (i.e. due to calf size) and maternal calving difficulty (i.e. due to the maternal pelvic width size) was also observed at the  rs43101491 SNP. Following adjustment for multiple-testing, significant association (q  0.05) remained between the rs41694646 SNP and four traits (animal stature, body depth, direct calving difficulty and milk yield) only. Notably, the single SNP in the bovine NESP55 gene (rs41694656) was associated (P   0.01) with somatic cell count--an often-cited indicator of resistance to mastitis and overall health status of the mammary system--and previous studies have demonstrated that the chromosomal region to where the GNAS domain maps underlies an important quantitative trait locus for this trait. This association, however, was not significant after adjustment for multiple testing. The three remaining SNPs assayed were not associated with any of the performance traits analysed in this study. Analysis of all pairwise linkage disequilibrium (r2) values suggests that most allele substitution effects for the assayed SNPs observed are independent. Finally, the polymorphic coding SNP in the putative bovine NESP55 gene was used to test the imprinting status of this gene across a range of foetal bovine tissues. CONCLUSIONS: Previous studies in other mammalian species have shown that DNA sequence variation within the imprinted GNAS gene cluster contributes to several  physiological and metabolic disorders, including obesity in humans and mice. Similarly, the results presented here indicate an important role for the imprinted GNAS cluster in underlying complex performance traits in cattle such as animal growth, calving, fertility and health. These findings suggest that GNAS domain-associated polymorphisms may serve as important genetic markers for future livestock breeding programs and support previous studies that candidate imprinted loci may act as molecular targets for the genetic improvement of agricultural populations. In addition, we present new evidence that the bovine NESP55 gene is  epigenetically regulated as a maternally expressed imprinted gene in placental and intestinal tissues from 8-10 week old bovine foetuses.

21257065	Quantitative trait loci affecting milk production traits on bovine chromosome 6 in zebuine Gyr breed. Fourteen Brazilian dairy Gyr sire families with 657 daughters were analyzed for quantitative trait loci (QTL) on chromosome 6 by using a daughter design for 5 economic traits: milk, fat, and protein production, fat and protein percentage. The cows and sires were genotyped for 27 microsatellites with average spacing between markers of 4.9 cM. In the analyses across 14 families, for the largest significant families, and within family, a QTL was located for milk yield and fat yield close to marker BMS2508 at the 5% chromosome-wide significance level across families and 1% chromosome-wide within families. For fat percentage, a QTL near DIK4482 was identified at the 5% chromosome-wide significance level when all families were analyzed together and at the 1% chromosome-wide significance level  within the largest significant families. The different analyses yielded results that were generally consistent for milk yield, fat yield, and fat percentage. The order of the markers in the derived map was consistent with that in the consensus map. Some QTL and candidate genes in dairy cattle for milk production traits are  probably preserved in Bos taurus and Bos indicus.

21310447	Effect of polymorphisms at the STAT5A and FGF2 gene loci on reproduction, milk yield and lameness of Holstein cows. The objective of this study was to investigate the association of polymorphisms at the STAT5A and FGF2 gene loci with fertility, lactation milk yield and lameness in dairy cattle. Five hundred and eighteen primiparous Holstein cows were included in the study. Several reproductive traits were considered including conception rate (0/1) at first insemination, conception rate (0/1) in a 305-day lactation, number of inseminations per conception, interval (days) from calving to conception for cows that conceived in the first 305 days of lactation and age  at first calving. Milk yield and lameness incidence were also recorded. Genotyping was performed using PCR-RFLP. The effect of allele substitution at each gene locus on reproductive traits, milk yield and lameness was assessed with single-trait mixed linear models. No significant associations were found between  reproduction traits and any of the studied polymorphisms, apart from age at first calving, for which STAT5A polymorphism had a suggestive effect (P = 0.077). In addition, no significant effect of any polymorphism on lameness was found. Replacement of the C by G allele at the STAT5A locus was associated with a significant (P<0.05) increase in lactation milk yield, suggesting that this locus could be considered in gene assisted selection for the genetic improvement of milk production.

21328100	Association between polymorphisms in the SLC27A1 gene and milk production traits  in Chinese Holstein cattle. We assessed SLC27A1, a candidate gene for milk production traits in Chinese Holstein cattle. DNA was extracted from the blood of 48 top Chinese Holstein Cattle selected according to phenotypic character and mixed into DNA pool for SNP detection. We tested blood samples of these cattle for SNPs in exon 3 and the 3'-flanking region of the SLC27A1 gene by using polymerase chain reaction-single-stranded conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing. We found 2 polymorphic sites: 112T>C, a synonymous mutation, in exon 3 (SNP(1)),  and 64G>A in the 3'-UTR (SNP(2)). We also determined the genotypes of 330 Chinese Holstein cattle by using PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). We  found 3 genotypes each at SNP(1) (TT, TC, and CC) and SNP(2) (GG, GA, and AA). The association among the different genotypes at these 2 sites and milk production traits was analyzed using a least-squares procedure. The results showed that cows with genotype CC had higher milk yields than those with genotype TC (0.01 < p < 0.05). No significant difference was detected among the 3 SNP(2) genotypes in terms of milk production traits. Our results provide evidence that the C allele have potential effects on milk yield trait.

21353268	Polymorphism in GHRH gene and its association with growth traits in Chinese native cattle. Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) is secreted by the hypothalamus and stimulates growth hormone (GH) released from the pituitary. Mutations detected in GHRH gene showed associations with animal production traits. The purpose of this  study was to investigate the association of the GHRH gene with growth traits in Chinese native cattle. PCR-SSCP and sequencing were used to detect mutations of the GHRH gene in this study. One novel mutation 4251nt (C>T) was found and the frequencies of C allele were 0.8778 and 0.8476 for Qinchuan and Nanyang cattle, respectively. Body weight with the CT genotype was significantly higher (P<0.05 or P<0.01) than those with CC genotype for different growth periods (6, 12, 18, and 24 months old) in Nanyang cattle. Our findings suggested that polymorphism in bovine GHRH might be one of the important genetic factors to influence body weight.

21357449	Genetic analyses involving microsatellite ETH10 genotypes on bovine chromosome 5  and performance trait measures in Angus- and Brahman-influenced cattle. ETH10 is a dinucleotide microsatellite within the promoter of signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) gene on bovine chromosome 5. ETH10 is included in the panel of genetic markers used in parentage testing procedures of  cattle breed associations. Allelic sizes of ETH10 PCR amplicons range from 199 to 225 bp. Objectives of this study were to use microsatellite data from beef cattle breed associations to investigate genetic distance and population stratification  among Angus- and Brahman-influenced cattle and to use ETH10 genotypes and growth  and ultrasound carcass data to investigate their statistical relationships. Three series of genotype to phenotype association analyses were conducted with 1) Angus data (n=5,094), 2) Brangus data (3/8 Brahman  5/8 Angus; n=2,296), and 3) multibreed data (n=4,426) of Angus and Brangus cattle. Thirteen alleles and 38 genotypes were observed, but frequencies varied among breed groups. Tests of genetic identity and distance among 6 breed composition groups increasing in Brahman influence from 0 to 75% revealed that as Brahman-influence increased to 50%, genetic distance from Angus ranged from 18.3 to 43.5%. This was accomplished with 10 microsatellite loci. A mixed effects model involving genotype as a fixed effect and sire as a random source of variation suggested that Angus cattle with the 217/219 genotype tended to have 2.1% heavier (P=0.07)  205-d BW than other genotypes. In Brangus cattle, allele combinations were classified as small (215 bp) or large (217 bp). Brangus cattle with the small/large genotype had 2.0% heavier (P<0.05) birth weight, yet cattle with the  large/large genotype had approximately 5.1% greater (P<0.05) percentage of fat within LM and more LM per BW than cattle with small/large or small/small genotypes. Genotype-to-phenotype relationships were not detected in multibreed analyses. The ETH10 locus appears to be associated with growth and carcass traits in Angus and Brangus cattle. Results from this study provide support for STAT6 as one of the candidate genes underlying cattle growth QTL on chromosome 5.

21396671	Productive performance of the dairy cattle Girolando breed mediated by the fat-related genes DGAT1 and LEP and their polymorphisms. Candidate genes have been associated with milk production in bovines, such as the diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) and leptin (LEP); however, they have not been simultaneously investigated nor have been evaluated in the Brazilian Girolando breed (GirHolstein, backcrossed to Holstein). Our aim was to determine the influence of fat-related genes, DGAT1 and LEP, and their polymorphisms on performance traits of milk production in the Girolando breed. Results indicated that the K allele of the DGAT1 gene showed a significant association with total and average daily milk production with additive effect. The LEP gene showed that  the A allele and its homozygote are highly prevalent and almost fixed in this population and may have been favorably selected during backcrossing for the origin of this breed. The important impact of the K allele of the DGAT1 gene on milk production corroborates the initiative of performing marker-assisted selections with this gene in breeding programs of the Girolando breed.

21421834	A genome-wide association study of meat and carcass traits in Australian cattle. Chromosomal regions containing DNA variation affecting the traits intramuscular fat percentage (IMF), meat tenderness measured as peak force to shear the LM (LLPF), and rump fat measured at the sacro-iliac crest in the chiller (CHILLP8) were identified using a set of 53,798 SNP genotyped on 940 taurine and indicine cattle sampled from a large progeny test experiment. Of these SNP, 87, 64, and 63 were significantly (P < 0.001) associated with the traits IMF, LLPF, and CHILLP8, respectively. A second, nonoverlapping sample of 1,338 taurine and indicine cattle from the same large progeny test experiment genotyped for 335 SNP, including as a positive control the calpastatin (CAST) c.2832A > G SNP, was used  to confirm these locations. In total, 37 SNP were significantly (P < 0.05) associated with the same trait and with the same favorable homozygote in both data sets, representing 27 chromosomal regions. For the trait IMF, the effect of  SNP in the confirmation data set was predicted from the discovery set by multiplying the estimated allele effect of each SNP in the discovery set by the number of copies of the reference allele of each SNP in the confirmation set. These weighted effects were then summed over all SNP to generate a molecular breeding value (MBV) for each animal in the confirmation data set. Using a bivariate analysis of MBV and IMF phenotypes of animals in the confirmation set,  a panel of 14 SNP explained 5.6 and 15.6% of the phenotypic and genetic variance  of IMF, respectively, in the confirmation data set. The amount of variation did not increase as more SNP were added to the MBV and instead decreased to 1.2 and 3.8% of the phenotypic and genetic variance of IMF, respectively, when 329 SNP were included in the analysis.

21426415	Association analysis between variants in bovine progesterone receptor gene and superovulation traits in Chinese Holstein cows. The objective of this study was to identify a predictor to forecast superovulation response on the basis of associations between superovulation performance and gene polymorphism. The PCR-RFLP method was applied to detect two  reported single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of G59752C and T81637C (rs41614030) located in introns 3 and 4 of the bovine progesterone receptor (PGR) gene in 171 Chinese Holstein cows treated for superovulation and evaluate its associations with superovulation traits. In polymorphic locus 81637, all cows without superovulation response were g.81637TC and g.81637TT genotypes. Association analysis showed that these two SNPs had significant effects on the total number of ova (TNO) (p<0.05), and the T81637C polymorphism was significantly associated with the number of transferable embryos (p<0.05). In addition, significant additive effects (p<0.05) on TNO were detected in the polymorphisms of G59752C and T81637C. These results showed for the first time that the G59752C and T81637C polymorphisms in PGR gene were associated with superovulation traits and indicated that PGR gene can be used as a predictor for  superovulation in Chinese Holstein cows.

21426999	Association between interleukin-8 receptor- (CXCR1) polymorphism and disease incidence, production, reproduction, and survival in Holstein cows. The objective was to evaluate the association between the single nucleotide polymorphism at position +735 in the interleukin-8 receptor- (CXCR1) gene (CXCR1c.735) and disease incidence, milk production, reproductive performance, and survival in Holstein cows. Three-hundred fifty Holstein cows were enrolled. No association was found between CXCR1c.735 genotype and retained fetal membranes, metritis, or endometritis. Incidence rate of clinical mastitis was associated with CXCR1c.735 genotype; cows with genotypes CC and GC had a decreased incidence rate of clinical mastitis compared with GG cows. Milk yield was associated with CXCR1c.735 genotype; cows with genotype GC had greater milk yield than GG cows. Hazard of pregnancy was not associated with CXCR1c.735 genotype. Cows that had clinical mastitis had decreased hazard of pregnancy, and  cows that had endometritis tended to have a decreased hazard of pregnancy. Hazard of death or culling was not associated with CXCR1c.735 genotype. Multiparous cows and cows that had mastitis had increased hazard of death or culling. In contrast  to what we expected, cows with the genotype GG had an increased incidence rate of clinical mastitis and decreased milk yield.

21427001	Enhanced clinical mastitis resistance in Holsteins with a FEZL p.Gly105(12_13) polymorphism. Mastitis is a common infectious disease of the mammary gland and a major problem  in the dairy industry. We previously reported that forebrain embryonic zinc finger-like (FEZL) encoding a stretch of 12 glycines (p.Gly105[12]) instead of 13 glycines (p.Gly105[13]) is associated with a lower somatic cell score (SCS) in a  family derived from Walkway Chief Mark. Here we report that the p.Gly105[12] allele is associated with a significantly decreased incidence of clinical mastitis in a large Holstein population. We genotyped the FEZL polymorphism in 918 randomly collected Holstein sires, and investigated the effect of the polymorphism on the estimated breeding value (EBV) for SCS and milk, fat, solids-not-fat, and protein yield, and on the number of cattle with clinical mastitis among daughters derived from these sires. The average EBV for SCS among  sires carrying the heterozygous p.Gly105[12] was significantly lower than that among sires carrying the homozygous p.Gly105[13], whereas we found no unfavorable effects of this polymorphism on EBV for milk, fat, solids-not-fat, and protein yield. The proportion of cows with clinical mastitis derived from sires carrying  heterozygous p.Gly105[12] was significantly lower than that of daughters derived  from sires carrying the homozygous p.Gly105[13]. Thus, selection of sires carrying p.Gly105[12] could be beneficial in the dairy industry by reducing the incidence of mastitis.

21435309	Association of bovine CD4 and STAT5b single nucleotide polymorphisms with somatic cell scores and milk production traits in Chinese Holsteins. CD4+ T cells play a key role in the immune response of pathogen-induced mastitis  in dairy cattle. Mammary gland factor STAT5b is involved in the regulation of CD4+T cell differentiation during inflammatory response and milk production. Little is known about the genetic variation effects of bovine CD4 and STAT5b genes on somatic cell score (SCS) and milk production traits in dairy cattle. The aim of the study was to investigate the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of bovine CD4 and STAT5b in Chinese Holsteins and to analyse their association with  estimated breeding values (EBVs) for SCS and milk production traits. In the present study, SNPs of CD4 (NC_007303 g.13598C>T) and STAT5b (NC_007317 g.31562 T>C) were identified and genotyped in Chinese Holstein population. The results showed that both SNPs were significantly associated with the EBVs for milk yield  and protein yield in Chinese Holstein cows, and the SNP in CD4 was associated with the EBV for SCS (P<0.01). The additive effect of CD4 SNP on protein yield was significant (P<0.05), and the dominant effect of STAT5b SNP was significant on milk yield and protein yield (P<0.01). Cows with combination genotype C7 (CCTT: CD4 g.13598C>T and STAT5b g.31562 T>C) had the highest SCS EBV but lower milk yield, while cows with C2 (TTTC) produced more milk, fat and protein than the other eight combination genotypes. These results suggested that the SNPs in CD4 and STAT5b may be potential genetic markers for SCS and milk/protein yields selecting and warrant further functional research.

21504841	Cloning and polymorphisms of the 3' untranslated region of malic enzyme gene in Chinese red cattle. The objective of this study was to identify alternative transcripts and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 3'-untranslated region (3' UTR) of bovine  malic enzyme (ME1) gene and to evaluate the extent to which polymorphisms were associated with meat quality and carcass traits in Chinese red cattle. Two transcripts, long transcript and short transcript that differ in the length of the 3' UTR were cloned. A single nucleotide polymorphism was detected in 3' UTR and a restriction site for endonuclease ME1-Dra I was also found. The result revealed that the ME1-Dra I genotypes had a significant effect on cooking loss, pH measured 24h post-mortem (pH(24h)) and eye muscle area (P < 0.05). In conclusion, the SNPs may be used as DNA markers to select for meat quality and carcass traits in Chinese red cattle.

21523659	Polymorphism of somatostatin gene and its association with growth traits in Chinese cattle. Somatostatins play a crucial role in the regulation of growth and development in  vertebrates, especially muscle growth. We assessed the association of somatostatin gene polymorphisms with growth traits by PCR-SSCP (polymerase chain  reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism) and DNA sequencing methods in 694 individuals from six Chinese cattle breeds. A novel single nucleotide polymorphism, G126A, was detected, and significant associations were found with body length, body height, hip width, heart girth, and hucklebone width index. Polymorphism of the somatostatin gene was found to be highly associated with growth traits in the Qinchuan breed at various ages. Gene frequency analysis showed significant differences among the breeds. Individuals with genotype AA had significantly lower body height, body length, hip width, and hucklebone width values compared to AG at 1.5 years old, and had significantly lower hip width, body length and hucklebone width compared to AG at 2 years old. At 2.5 years old, populations with genotype AA had significantly lower body length, hip width and hucklebone width than AG individuals, with the exception of the Luxi breed, in which two genotypes were found. The Luxi and Ximentaer crossbreed had the lowest  frequency of the G allele, while the highest G allele frequencies were found in the Luxi breed.

21554346	Mapping of fertility traits in Finnish Ayrshire by genome-wide association analysis. A whole-genome scan using single marker association was used to detect chromosome regions associated with seven female fertility traits in Finnish Ayrshire dairy cattle. The phenotypic data consisted of de-regressed estimated breeding values for 340 bulls which were estimated using a single trait model. Genotypes were obtained with the Illumina BovineSNP50 panel and a total of 35 630 informative, high-quality single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were used. The association analysis was performed using a mixed-model approach which fitted a fixed effect for each SNP and a random polygenic effect. We detected eleven genome-wide significant associations on eight different chromosomes. With at least chromosome-wise significance after Bonferroni correction, sixteen SNPs on nine chromosomes showed significant associations with one or more fertility traits. The results confirmed quantitative trait loci on three chromosomes (1, 2  and 20) for fertility traits previously reported for the same breed and one on chromosome four previously detected in Holstein cattle.

21554351	Association between molecular markers for beef tenderness and growth traits in Argentinian angus cattle. Molecular markers for beef tenderness are classic examples of the contribution of genome technology to animal breeding through marker-assisted selection (MAS). Markers on the -calpain (CAPN1) and calpastatin (CAST) genes have been extensively evaluated for their association with tenderness. However, little is known about their potential effect on other economically important traits. In this work, the association of molecular markers for beef tenderness with growth traits was evaluated in Angus cattle of Argentina. Expected progeny differences were extracted from the 2008 Angus Sire Summary of Argentina. Information corresponding to 268 influential bulls that had been genotyped for two markers in CAPN1 and two markers in CAST was provided by the Argentine Angus Association. Genotype probabilities were assigned, by segregation analysis, to those bulls in  the Sire Summary that had no marker information. Expected progeny differences of  1365 sires were regressed on the number of alleles favouring tenderness at each locus. There was a significant effect of markers on expected progeny differences  of birth weight, weaning weight (direct), weight at 18 months and rib eye area. In general, there was a negative effect of alleles favouring tenderness on growth traits. These correlated responses should be taken into account when molecular markers are used in selection schemes that aim to improve beef tenderness.

21569316	Genome-wide association of milk fatty acids in Dutch dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: Identifying genomic regions, and preferably individual genes, responsible for genetic variation in milk fat composition of bovine milk will enhance the understanding of biological pathways involved in fatty acid synthesis and may point to opportunities for changing milk fat composition via selective breeding. An association study of 50,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was performed for even-chain saturated fatty acids (C4:0-C18:0), even-chain monounsaturated fatty acids (C10:1-C18:1), and the polyunsaturated C18:2cis9,trans11 (CLA) to identify genomic regions associated with individual fatty acids in bovine milk. RESULTS: The two-step single SNP association analysis found a total of 54 regions on 29 chromosomes that were significantly associated with one or more fatty acids. Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) 14, 19, and 26 showed highly significant associations with seven to ten traits, explaining a relatively large percentage of the total additive genetic variation. Many additional regions were significantly associated with the fatty acids. Some of the regions harbor genes that are known to be involved in fat synthesis or were previously identified as underlying quantitative trait loci for fat yield or content, such as ABCG2 and PPARGC1A on BTA 6; ACSS2 on BTA 13; DGAT1 on BTA 14; ACLY, SREBF1, STAT5A, GH, and FASN on BTA 19; SCD1 on BTA26; and AGPAT6 on BTA 27. CONCLUSIONS: Medium chain and unsaturated fatty acids are strongly influenced by  polymorphisms in DGAT1 and SCD1. Other regions also showed significant associations with the fatty acids studied. These additional regions explain a relatively small percentage of the total additive genetic variance, but they are  relevant to the total genetic merit of an individual and in unraveling the genetic background of milk fat composition. Regions identified in this study can  be fine mapped to find causal mutations. The results also create opportunities for changing milk fat composition through breeding by selecting individuals based on their genetic merit for milk fat composition.

21597988	Bovine IFNGR2, IL12RB1, IL12RB2, and IL23R polymorphisms and MAP infection status. Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) infection causes a chronic granulomatous inflammatory condition of the bovine gut that is characterized by diarrhea, progressive weight loss, and emaciation, and ultimately leads to loss in productivity and profitability of dairy operations. The host cytokine machinery is known to play an important role in protecting against MAP infection. Therefore, the goal of the present study was to assess whether polymorphisms in candidate genes encoding important cytokines and cytokine receptors are associated with MAP infection status of dairy cattle. MAP infection status was evaluated based on serum and milk enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for MAP-specific antibodies. Twenty previously reported polymorphisms in genes encoding bovine interferon gamma (IFNG), IFNGR1, IFNGR2, IL22, IL22RA1, IL12RB1,  IL12RB2, and IL23R were genotyped in a resource population of 446 dairy Holsteins with known MAP infection status, and logistic regression was used to assess the statistical association with a binomial MAP infection status phenotype. Four SNPs in IFNGR2, IL12RB1, IL12RB2, and IL23R were found to be associated with the MAP infection status of the resource population. These results underscore the importance of cytokines and their receptors in conferring protection against MAP  infection and warrant further functional characterization of these associations.

21605784	Whole-genome association study for milk protein composition in dairy cattle. Our objective was to perform a genome-wide association study for content in bovine milk of (S1)-casein ((S1)-CN), (S2)-casein ((S2)-CN), -casein (-CN), -casein (-CN), -lactalbumin (-LA), -lactoglobulin (-LG), casein index, protein percentage, and protein yield using a 50K single nucleotide polymorphism  (SNP) chip. In total, 1,713 Dutch Holstein-Friesian cows were genotyped for 50,228 SNP and a 2-step association study was performed. The first step involved  a general linear model and the second step used a mixed model accounting for all  family relationships. Associations with milk protein content and composition were detected on 20 bovine autosomes. The main genomic regions associated with milk protein composition or protein percentage were found on chromosomes 5, 6, 11, and 14. The number of chromosomal regions showing significant (false discovery rate <0.01) effects ranged from 3 for -CN and 3 for -LG to 12 for (S2)-CN. A genomic region on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 6 was significantly associated with all 6 major milk proteins, and a genomic region on BTA 11 was significantly associated with the 4 caseins and -LG. In addition, regions were detected that only showed a significant effect on one of the milk protein fractions: regions on BTA 13 and 22 with effects on (S1)-CN; regions on BTA 1, 9, 10, 17, 19, and 28 with effects on (S2)-CN; a region on BTA 6 with an effect on -CN; regions on BTA 13 and 21 with effects on -CN; regions on BTA 1, 5, 9, 16, 17, and 26 with effects on -LA; and a region on BTA 24 with an effect on -LG. The proportion of genetic variance explained by the SNP showing the strongest association in each of these genomic regions ranged from <1% for (S1)-CN on BTA 22 to almost 100% for casein index on BTA 11. Variation associated with regions on BTA 6, 11, and 14 could in large part but not completely be explained by known protein variants  of -CN (BTA 6), -CN (BTA 6), and -LG (BTA 11) or DGAT1 variants (BTA 14). Our  results indicate 3 regions with major effects on milk protein composition, in addition to several regions with smaller effects involved in the regulation of milk protein composition.

21607618	Molecular characterization, expression pattern, polymorphism and association analysis of bovine ADAMTSL3 gene. A disintegrin-like and metalloprotease domain with thrombospondin type I motifs-like 3 (ADAMTSL3) is an important candidate gene for body measurement traits through marker-assisted selection (MAS). The objective of this study was to analyze SNP of bovine ADAMTSL3 gene and its specific expression in tissues to  explore its possible correlation with body measurement traits in Bos taurus. Our  genomic structural analysis showed that bovine ADAMTSL3 shares much similarity with human ADAMTSL3. Gene expression analysis indicated that the order of specific tissue expression patterns of bovine ADAMTSL3 was the testis, heart, fat, stomach, small intestine, liver, lung, trachea, kidney, spleen, large intestine and muscle. Allele frequencies demonstrated significant variance in different local cattle breeds. Also, the T1532C SNP in exon 13 and C1899T SNP in  exon 15 were significantly correlated with Body Length (BL), Chest Depth (CD), Heart Girth (HG) and Pin Bone Width (PBW). Furthermore, C1899T SNP marker had significant correlation with the PBW (P = 0. 0235) based on 867 individual analysis. In the total population, combination of T1532C and C1899T SNPs significantly affected on the BL (P = 0.0028), CD (P < 0.0001), HG (P = 0.0002) and PBW (P = 0.0049). These results suggest that the ADAMTSL3 gene, as one of target genes for body measurement traits in cattle breeds, could be used as a genetic marker to select excellent body type of cattle population in the animal breeding program.

21615832	Genetic association between GHSR1a 5'UTR-microsatellite and nt-7(C>A) loci and growth and carcass traits in Japanese Black cattle. We carried out a genetic association study between five nucleotide polymorphisms  (5'UTR microsatellite ((TG)(n)), nt-7(C>A), L24V, DelR242 and Intron 1 microsatellite) of the GHSR1a gene and growth and carcass traits in 1285 steers sired by 117 Japanese Black bulls in a progeny testing program. We report herein, a significant association between the 5'UTR microsatellite and nt-7(C>A) loci and growth and carcass traits. We also propose a translational hypothesis that the association is due to differences in the secondary structure of GHSR1b mRNA (the  non-spliced type with the 5'UTR microsatellite) among the GHSR1a gene haplotypes. Furthermore, we predicted the potential increase in profitability due to increased carcass weight in cow-calf fattening enterprises through planned matings based on DNA testing of the 5'UTR microsatellite. Statistical analysis revealed that the 5'UTR microsatellite locus had a significant additive effect on carcass weight (CW) and average daily gain (ADG), but not on beef marbling score  (BMS). One of the four major microsatellite alleles (19-TG allele) with an allele frequency of 0.145, had a significantly (P < 0.0007) desirable effect on CW and ADG. We concluded that the 19-TG allele could potentially be economically useful  nucleotide markers for growth and carcass traits in Japanese Black cattle.

21667104	Polymorphisms of the bovine luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) gene and its association with superovulation traits. The major limitation to the development of embryo transfer technique in cattle is the highly variable between individuals in ovulatory response to FSH-induced superovulation. The objective of this study was to identify a predictor to forecast superovulation response on the basis of associations between superovulation performance and gene polymorphism, variation in the bovine luteinizing hormone/choriogonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) gene was investigated using PCR-single-strand conformational (PCR-SSCP) and DNA sequencing. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of G51656T, A51703G, A51726G and G51737A were identified at the intron 9 of the LHCGR gene in 171 Chinese Holstein cows treated for superovulation, and evaluated its associations with superovulatory response.  Association analysis showed that these four SNPs had significant effects on the total number of ova (TNO) (P < 0.05). Moreover, the A51703G and A51726G polymorphisms significantly associated with the number of transferable embryos (NTE) (P < 0.05). In addition, significant additive effect on TNO was detected in polymorphisms of G51656T (P < 0.05) and A51703G (P < 0.01), and the A51703G polymorphism also had significant additive effects on NTE (P < 0.01). These results indicate that LHCGR gene is a potential marker for superovulation response and can be used to predict the most appropriate dose of FSH for superovulation in Chinese Holstein cows.

21667239	Molecular cloning, promoter analysis, SNP detection of Clusterin gene and their associations with mastitis in Chinese Holstein cows. To examine the effect of Clusterin (CLU) on mastitis, genetic association analysis was applied on mastitis and milk production traits of 1,137 Chinese Holstein cows. We detected two novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), G+15781A in the seventh exon and C-994T before 5'-upstream region (UTR) of CLU gene, found five TATA box, one CpG island and more transcription factor binding sites in promoter region, respectively, Milk fat rate in genotype AA was significantly higher than in GG on fat rate (P < 0.01), milk fat and milk yield in combined haplotype H1H4 (AGCT) were significantly higher than in H3H4 (GGCT) (P < 0.05), H1H4 was decided advantage in nine milk production traits. Quadruplet cows in G+15781A were decided advantage in each milk production traits that 305-day milk yield, fat rate, protein rate and somatic cell scores (SCS) increased following with birth order. A allele and T allele had positive effect on SCS. In conclusion, this study showed that the haplotype AA may be a genetic marker on mastitis and other performance for Chinese Holstein cows.

21681425	Polymorphisms of STAT5A gene and their association with milk production traits in Holstein cows. The STAT5A gene was studied as a candidate gene for five milk production traits (milk yield at 305 days, protein percentage, fat percentage, lactose percentage and dry matter percentage) in Holstein cows. According to the sequence of bovine  STAT5A gene, two pairs of primers (P1 and P2) were designed to detect polymorphisms of STAT5A gene in 401 Holstein cows by PCR-RFLP and PCR-SSCP. The results showed that the products amplified by primers P1 and P2 displayed polymorphisms. For P1, three genotypes (AA, AG, and GG) were detected, and the frequency of AA/AG/GG was 0.252/0.486/0.262, respectively. Sequence analysis revealed a single nucleotide substitution A-G at 14217 bp (GenBank NC_007317) of  bovine STAT5A gene while compared GG genotype with AA genotype. The differences of the least squares means for the four milk production traits (milk yield at 305 days, fat percentage, lactose percentage and dry matter percentage) between AA, AG and GG were not significant (P > 0.05). Least squares mean of protein percentage for AG or GG was significantly higher than that for AA (P < 0.05); the difference of the least squares mean for protein percentage was not significant between AG and GG (P > 0.05). For P2, three genotypes (CC, CT, and TT) were detected in Holstein cows, and the frequency of CC/CT/TT was 0.751/0.234/0.015, respectively. Sequencing revealed an insertion CCT at 17266 (NC_007317) of bovine STAT5A gene while compared CC genotype with TT genotype. The differences of the least squares means for the three milk production traits (protein percentage, lactose percentage and dry matter percentage) between CC, CT and TT were not significant (P > 0.05). Least squares mean of milk yield at 305 days for TT or CT was significantly higher than that for CC (P < 0.05); the difference of the least squares mean for milk yield at 305 days was not significant between TT and CT (P  > 0.05). Least squares mean of fat percentage for CC or CT was significantly higher than that for TT (P < 0.05); the difference of the least squares mean for  fat percentage was not significant between CC and CT (P > 0.05). The results preliminarily indicated that allele G of A14217G polymorphic site of STAT5A gene  is a potential DNA marker for improving protein percentage in dairy cattle, 17266indelCCT polymorphic site of STAT5A gene is a potential DNA marker for improving milk yield at 305 days and fat percentage in dairy cattle.

21684095	Polymorphisms in follicle stimulation hormone receptor, inhibin alpha, inhibin bata A, and prolactin genes, and their association with sperm quality in Chinese  Holstein bulls. Candidate genes follicle stimulation hormone receptor (FSHR), inhibin alpha (INHA), inhibin bata A (INHBA) and prolactin (PRL) were investigated for their association with sperm quality traits of semen volume per ejaculate (VOL), sperm  concentration (SCON), motility (MOT), sperm motility in frozen semen (FMOT), acrosome integrity rate (AIR) and abnormal sperm rate (ASR) in a total of 123 normal mature Holstein bulls. Three reported single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of FSHR A-234500T (rs43676359), IHNA A192G (rs41257116), and IHNBA C7639T  (rs43408735), and 3 novel SNPs (G7550A, C7661T, and T8370C) in exons 4 and 5 of bovine PRL gene (NC 007324) were analyzed. Analysis of variance revealed that FSHR A-234500T and INHBA C7639T polymorphisms significantly associated with VOL (P<0.05) and SCON (P<0.05), and the polymorphism of INHBA C7639T also had significant effects on MOT (P<0.05). Furthermore, the INHA A192G polymorphism significantly associated with AIR (P<0.05). No significant differences were found between the polymorphisms of PRL gene and sperm quality traits.

21687971	Exploring polymorphisms of the bovine RARRES2 gene and their associations with growth traits. Retinoic acid receptor responder 2 gene (RARRES2) encodes a novel adipokine protein that plays a crucial role in regulating several biological processes, including immune responses, adipocyte differentiation, type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. In this paper, polymorphisms of the bovine RARRES2 gene were  detected in 1300 individuals from six breeds by DNA pooling, CRS-PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing methods. The results showed that NC_007302:g.117035859A>G, 117035706G>A and 117034290A>G were in the coding region, which resulted in three  synonymous mutations and only 117033779C>G was in the 3' UTR. Additionally, associations of the four novel SNPs with growth traits were analyzed in Nanyang cattle up to 2 years of age. In P1-PvuII locus, individuals with genotype BC had  greater body height and hucklebone width than those with genotype AA, AC and AB at the age of 24 months. In P3-BamHI locus, individuals with genotype AG had higher hucklebone width than those with genotype GG at the age of 24 months. However, no statistically significant differences were observed in P5-SmaI locus. These results indicated that RARRES2 gene might be a potential candidate gene for marker-assisted selection (MAS).

21700051	Evidence that leptin genotype is associated with fertility, growth, and milk production in Holstein cows. This study investigated associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the leptin, leptin receptor, and neuropeptide Y (NPY) genes with growth, milk production, and fertility traits. Holstein Friesian heifers from 19 UK dairy farms were recruited at birth, providing an initial population of 509. Animals were monitored until they either reached the end of their second lactation or were culled. Size (weight, height, length, girth) was measured at 1, 6, and 15 mo to assess growth traits. Heifer fertility was assessed by recording age at service, age at conception, age at first calving, and number of services. Cow fertility was assessed by recording days from calving to service and conception,  services per conception, percentage of animals in calf at 100 d after calving and the calving interval in each lactation. Milk production was recorded as days in milk, total milk per lactation, 305-d yield, milk per day, and peak yield. Mixed  model analyses revealed that leptin SNP were associated with early skeletal growth (height, A1457G; length, A59V), fertility (UASMS1, UASMS2, A1457G, A59V) and milk production (A59V). The leptin receptor SNP (T945M) was only weakly associated with milk per day and days to first service. The NPY SNP (NPY1) was associated with the prevalence of the animal being in calf 100 d after calving and 305-d milk yield in the first lactation. The association of leptin SNP with fertility traits in heifers, in addition to lactating cows, suggests that some effects on fertility are direct and not necessarily mediated via altered tissue mobilization. In accord with this, other work has shown that leptin can affect oocyte quality and early embryo development. These results support the use of leptin SNP to inform marker-assisted selection in dairy cows.

21700053	Genetic variation of toll-like receptor genes and infection by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis in Holstein-Friesian cattle. Toll-like receptors (TLR) are membrane proteins that play a key role in innate immunity, by recognizing pathogens and subsequently activating appropriate responses. Mutations in TLR genes are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory and infectious diseases in humans. In cattle, 3 members of the TLR family, TLR1, TLR2, and TLR4, are associated with Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis infection, although the extent of this association for the TLR1  and TLR4 receptors has not yet been determined. Moreover, the causal variant in the TLR2 gene has not yet been unequivocally established. In this study, 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the bovine TLR1, TLR2, and TLR4 genes were selected from the literature, databases, and in silico searches, for a population-based genetic association study of a Spanish Holstein-Friesian sample. Whereas previous results regarding the TLR1 gene were not corroborated, a risk haplotype was detected in TLR2; however, its low frequency indicates that this detected association should be interpreted with caution. In the case of the TLR4  gene, 3 tightly linked SNP were found to be associated with susceptibility to M.  avium ssp. paratuberculosis infection. Moreover, one of these SNP, the SNP c.-226G>C, which is localized in the 5'UTR region of the TLR4 gene, has been reported to be able to alter TLR4 expression, raising the possibility that this mutation may contribute to the response of the individual to infection.

21700058	Short communication: influence of the muscle hypertrophy mutation of the myostatin gene on milk production traits and milk fatty acid composition in dual-purpose Belgian Blue dairy cattle. The objective of this study was to estimate genetic effects for the muscle hypertrophy mutation (mh) of the myostatin gene for conventional milk production  traits and for milk fatty acid composition in dual-purpose Belgian Blue dairy cows. For the present study, only cows from a single herd, in which genotype frequencies were as balanced as possible (0.266 for +/+, 0.523 for mh/+, and 0.211 for mh/mh), were chosen to avoid confounding between herd and genotype effects. A total of 109 cows with 3,190 test-day records for fat, protein, and milk yields and 1,064 test-day records for saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids were used for the calculations. Variance component and gene effect estimations were performed via expectation-maximization REML and BLUP methods, respectively, using a multi-trait mixed test-day model with an additional fixed regression on the muscle hypertrophy genotype. Results showed that one copy of the wild-type "+" allele led to a significant additive effect of 26.35 g/d for fat yield. Significant dominance effects of 23.22 g/d for protein yield and 30.28 g/d for fat yield were also observed. In contrast, a nonsignificant trend was observed in favor of lower saturated fatty acid contents in milk for one copy of  the mutant "mh" allele. Concerning milk, fat, and protein yields, our results confirmed literature results indicating a superior effect of the "+" allele compared with the mutant allele. Therefore, the selection of the "+" allele has the potential to increase conventional milk production traits in the dual-purpose Belgian Blue breed. However, when focus is given to milk fatty acid profile, a possible antagonistic effect between the benefit of the "+" allele for higher milk production and the "mh" allele for reduced saturated fatty acid content in milk should be confirmed in further studies.

21710448	A novel polymorphism of the GDF gene and its association with body measurement  traits in Chinese indigenous cattle. Body measurement traits are known to play numerous important roles in the assessment of productivity and economic value. They are influenced by several factors, among which genetic factors are predominant. The gene GDF is involved  in skeletal morphogenesis and is associated with body measurement traits. It may  be an important candidate gene for marker-assisted selection. We used the PCR-SSCP technology to examine a possible association of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (G142A) of the bovine GDF gene with body measurement traits  in 417 animals belonging to six different Chinese cattle populations: Xue long (Xl), Luxi (Lx), Qinchuan (Qc), Jiaxian red (Jx), Xianang (Xn), and Nanyang (Ny). In the Jx population, least squares analysis revealed significant effects on hip  width, chest depth and chest circumference. The animals with the GG genotype had  higher mean values than those with the GA genotype for all three traits. We conclude that the SNP of the GDF gene could be a very useful genetic marker for body traits in Jx cattle reproduction and breeding.

21732286	Candidate gene region for control of rib eye area in Canchim beef cattle. Investigation of molecular marker effects on production traits is essential to define marker assisted selection strategies in beef cattle. We looked for a possible association of molecular markers and backfat thickness (BFT) and rib eye area (REA) in Canchim (5/8 Charolais + 3/8 Zebu) and MA (offspring of Charolais bulls and 1/2 Canchim + 1/2 Zebu cows) animals raised exclusively on pasture. Traits were measured on 987 individuals from seven herds from two Brazilian States (So Paulo and Gois), in March and April from 2005 to 2007, when animals  were, on average, 19 months of age. Five microsatellite markers lying in QTL regions for BFT and REA (BMS490 and ETH10 on chromosome 5, INRA133 and ILSTS090 on chromosome 6, and BMS2142 on chromosome 19) were genotyped and association analyses were performed under an animal model using the restricted maximum likelihood method. After correction for multiple tests, a significant effect of microsatellite BMS490 on REA was observed, suggesting that at least one QTL affecting carcass traits in this region of the BTA5. No significant effect on BFT was observed for these markers.

21735104	Identification and analysis of MC4R polymorphisms and their association with economic traits of Korean cattle (Hanwoo). Signaling by the melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is important for mediation the effect of leptin on food intake and energy homeostasis, and is associated with obesity, energy homeostasis and control of feeding behavior. Presently, the bovine MC4R gene was characterized to detect genetic variation at this locus and  to relate it to economic traits in Korean cattle (Hanwoo). Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified in the coding region (G709A, C927T, C1069G,  C1343A, and C1786T). G709A changed amino acid 166 of the MC4R protein from valine to methionine and C1069G changed amino acid 286 of the MC4R protein from leucine  to valine. A SNP at C927T significantly influenced the Marbling score, SNP markers C1069G and C1343A significantly affected the Backfat thickness, and the SNP marker C1786T significantly influenced backfat and Marbling score. The MC4R gene may thus be a candidate gene for carcass traits with MC4R SNPs being potentially valuable as genetic markers for economic traits in Hanwoo.

21743995	A promoter polymorphism of MSTN g.-371T>A and its associations with carcass traits in Korean cattle. A promoter polymorphism of bovine Myostatin (MSTN) gene g.-371T>A was screened in Holstein and two Korean indigenous cattle breeds, Hanwoo and Jeju Black cattle (JBC). The MSTN g.-371T>A polymorphism was found in all three cattle breeds tested. An allele MSTN g.-371A was the most frequent in the JBC breed among breeds tested. The association of MSTN genotypes for carcass traits was also tested in the Hanwoo population. Significant differences were found between the genotypes and level of meat quality grade index which converted the marbling score levels (P<0.05), reflecting the metabolic role of MSTN for inhibition of  preadipocyte differentiation in intramuscular fat deposition. In addition, significant differences were found for fat color index of backfat according to MSTN genotypes (P<0.05), suggesting that MSTN may play a role in deposition of  white-yellow adipocytes in backfat. However, there was no detection of significant association of genotypes with the live weight, carcass weight, backfat thickness, eye muscle area, marbling score, or meat color index (P>0.05). Despite the lack of statistical association, wild type g.-371T/-showed association patterns similar to those of A/A homozygotes, such as heavier weights, thinner backfat, larger eye muscle area, and lower marbling score. The results of the present study suggest that MSTN promoter polymorphism g.-371T>A may affect carcass traits, which could be a useful molecular marker for planning improvements in the economic traits of Korean cattle breeds.

21749417	Bovine PGLYRP1 polymorphisms and their association with resistance to Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis. Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) causes a chronic, granulomatous inflammatory condition of the intestines in ruminants and wild-type species. It causes significant economic losses to the dairy and beef industries owing to reduced productivity, premature culling and mortality. Bovine peptidoglycan recognition protein 1 is an important pattern recognition molecule that is capable of directly killing microorganisms. The goal of this study was to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding bovine peptidoglycan recognition protein 1 and to assess their association with susceptibility to MAP infection in dairy cattle. Blood and milk samples were collected from Holsteins in Southwestern and Eastern Ontario and tested for MAP infection using blood and milk ELISAs. A resource population consisting of 197 infected (S/P > 0.25) and 242 healthy (S/P < 0.10) cattle was constructed. Sequencing of pooled DNA was used to identify three SNPs (c.102G>C, c.480G>A and  c.625C>A) that were genotyped in the resource population. Statistical analysis was performed using a logistic regression model fitting the additive and dominance effects of each SNP in the model. SNP c.480G>A (P = 0.054) was found to be associated with susceptibility to MAP infection. Cows with a copy of the major allele 'G' at this locus had an odds ratio of 1.51 (95% CI: 0.99-2.31) for being  infected with MAP.

21749418	Genome-wide association study reveals five nucleotide sequence variants for carcass traits in beef cattle. Genetic associations of nucleotide sequence variants with carcass traits in beef  cattle were investigated using a genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) assay. Three hundred and thirteen Korean cattle were genotyped with the Illumina  BovineSNP50 BeadChip, and 39,129 SNPs from 311 animals were analysed for each carcass phenotype after filtering by quality assurance. Five sequence markers were associated with one of the meat quantity or quality traits; rs109593638 on chromosome 3 with marbling score, rs109821175 on chromosome 11 and rs110862496 on chromosome 13 with backfat thickness (BFT), and rs110228023 on chromosome 6 and rs110201414 on chromosome 16 with eye muscle area (EMA) (P < 1.27  10(-6) , Bonferonni P < 0.05). The ss96319521 SNP, located within a gene with functions of muscle development, dishevelled homolog 1 (DVL1), would be a desirable candidate  marker. Individuals with genotype CC at this gene appeared to have increased both EMA and carcass weight. Fine-mapping would be required to refine each of the five association signals shown in the current study for future application in marker-assisted selection for genetic improvement of beef quality and quantity.

21749477	Identification of candidate markers on bovine chromosome 14 (BTA14) under milk production trait quantitative trait loci in Holstein. The objective of this study was to identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms using a bovine chromosome 14 high-density SNP panel after accounting for the effect of  DGAT1. Linkage disequilibrium information and sire heterozygosity were used to select markers for linkage analysis on bovine chromosome 14 for milk production traits in 321 Holstein animals. Results show putative milk peaks at 42 and 61 cM, both at p<0.10, a fat yield peak at 42 and 63 cM, both at p<0.05; a protein yield peak at 42 (p<0.01) and 84 cM (p<0.05); fat per cent peaks at 3 (p<0.01) and 29 cM (p<0.05), and a protein per cent peak at 4 cM (p<0.05). Once quantitative trait loci positions were established, allele substitution effects for all markers were evaluated using the same statistical model. Overlaying information between quantitative trait loci (QTL) and allele effect analysis enabled the identification (p<0.01) of 20 SNPs under the milk yield QTL, 2 under both of the  fat yield peaks, 8 and 9 under the protein yield peaks, 2 and 6 for the fat per cent peaks and 5 for the protein per cent peak. One SNP in particular, ss61514555:A>C, showed association with 3 of the 5 traits: milk (p=1.59E-04), fat (p=6.88E-05) and protein yields (p=5.76E-05). Overall, combining information from linkage disequilibrium, sire heterozygosity and genetic knowledge of traits enabled the characterization of additional markers with significant associations  with milk production traits.

21750913	Polymorphism in the exon 4 of -lactoglobulin variant B precursor gene and its association with milk traits and protein structure in Chinese Holstein. -lactoglobulin (-LG) is the major whey protein in the milk. In order to investigate the polymorphism of -LG variant B precursor (-LG B*: GenBank accession no. DQ489319) gene and its effects on the milk traits, the single-strand conformation polymorphism method (PCR-SSCP) were adopted to analyze polymorphism between 5229th and 5476th bp in the -LG B* gene in Chinese Holstein. Four genotypes were found (AA, AB, AC and ABC) and 3 single nucleotide  polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected (g.5239C>A, g.5240A>C, g.5305C>T and mix type  g.5305C/T) in the exon 4 of -LG B* gene. It was also found that the protein contents of AB, AC and ABC dairy cows were higher than AA (P<0.05), and AC cows were the highest among them. Three SNPs (g.5239C>A, g.5240A>C and g.5305C>T) might affect the milk trait and all of them were high polymorphism (0.5<PIC<1.0). In further researches, the three SNPs also caused amino acid change (Asp>Glu, Thr>Pro and Ala>Val) respectively, and the spatial secondary and tertiary structure forecasting result also showed that single amino acid change influence protein spatial structure change in Chinese Holstein. Taken together, it is suggested that these SNPs change -LG B* gene structure and expression. The polymorphism possibly holds the secret of milk protein and fat contents in the milk of Chinese Holstein.

21773945	Fatty acid composition of beef is associated with exonic nucleotide variants of the gene encoding FASN. Genetic associations of fatty acid composition with exonic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding fatty acid synthase (FASN) were examined using 513 Korean cattle. All five individual SNPs of g.12870 T>C, g.13126 T>C, g.15532 C>A, g.16907 T>C and g.17924 G>A were associated with a variety of fatty acid compositions and further with marbling score (P<0.05). Their genotypes of CC, TT, AA, TT, and GG were associated with increased monounsaturated fatty acids and with decreased saturated fatty acids (P<0.05).  The genotypes at all the SNPs also increased marbling score (P<0.05). Further genetic associations with fatty acid composition suggested that homozygous genotype with the haplotype of ATG at g.15532, g.16907, and g.17924 in a linkage  disequilibrium block increased monounsaturated fatty acids and marbling score (P<0.05). We concluded that the five exonic SNPs of g.12870, g.13126, g.15532,  g.16907, and g.17924 in the FASN gene could change fatty acid contents. Their genotypes of CC, TT, AA, TT, and GG and haplotype of ATG at g.15532, g.16907, and g.17924 were recommended for genetic improvement of beef quality.

21774621	SNPs of CXCR1 gene and its associations with somatic cell score in Chinese Holstein cattle. Mastitis is one of the most prevalent diseases in dairy cattle; CXCR1 plays a key role in mastitis resistance via IL8 signaling pathway, with the CXCR1 SNPs showing a different degree of mastitis resistance. To investigate the situation of CXCR1 polymorphisms in Chinese Holstein cattle and determine the relationship  between the CXCR1 SNPs and mastitis resistance, the CXCR1 SNPs in 610 Chinese Holstein cattle of 30 families were investigated using polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) technique. The results showed that four SNPs, -1830A > G, -1768T > A, -344T > C, and 783C > A were detected at 5' upstream and coding region. The correlation analysis demonstrated that -1830AA, -1768TT, and -344TT correlated significantly with the  lowest SCS for each site, respectively. Haplotype analysis revealed Haplo2 (ATTA) correlated significantly with the lowest SCS. These findings indicated a prospect genetic marker of mastitis resistance in dairy cattle.

21805221	QTL and gene expression analyses identify genes affecting carcass weight and marbling on BTA14 in Hanwoo (Korean Cattle). Causal mutations affecting quantitative trait variation can be good targets for marker-assisted selection for carcass traits in beef cattle. In this study, linkage and linkage disequilibrium analysis (LDLA) for four carcass traits was undertaken using 19 markers on bovine chromosome 14. The LDLA analysis detected quantitative trait loci (QTL) for carcass weight (CWT) and eye muscle area (EMA)  at the same position at around 50 cM and surrounded by the markers FABP4SNP2774C>G and FABP4_sat3237. The QTL for marbling (MAR) was identified at  the midpoint of markers BMS4513 and RM137 in a 3.5-cM marker interval. The most likely position for a second QTL for CWT was found at the midpoint of tenth marker bracket (FABP4SNP2774C>G and FABP4_sat3237). For this marker bracket, the total number of haplotypes was 34 with a most common frequency of 0.118. Effects  of haplotypes on CWT varied from a -5-kg deviation for haplotype 6 to +8 kg for haplotype 23. To determine which genes contribute to the QTL effect, gene expression analysis was performed in muscle for a wide range of phenotypes. The results demonstrate that two genes, LOC781182 (p = 0.002) and TRPS1 (p = 0.006) were upregulated with increasing CWT and EMA, whereas only LOC614744 (p = 0.04) has a significant effect on intramuscular fat (IMF) content. Two genetic markers  detected in FABP4 were the most likely QTL position in this QTL study, but FABP4  did not show a significant effect on both traits (CWT and EMA) in gene expression analysis. We conclude that three genes could be potential causal genes affecting  carcass traits CWT, EMA, and IMF in Hanwoo.

21805344	Bovine GDF10 gene polymorphism analysis and its association with body measurement traits in Chinese indigenous cattle. The objective of this research was to detect bovine GDF10 gene polymorphism and analyze its association with body measurement traits (BMT) of animals sampled from 6 different Chinese indigenous cattle populations. The populations included  Xuelong (Xl), Luxi (Lx), Qinchuan (Qc), Jiaxian red (Jx), Xianang (Xn) and Nanyang (Ny). Blood samples were taken from a total of 417 female animals stratified into age categories of 12-36months. Polymerase chain reaction-single  strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) was employed to find out GDF10 single polymorphism nucleotide (SNPs) and explore their possible association with BMT. Sequence analysis of GDF10 gene revealed 3 SNPs in total: 1 in exon1 (G142A) and  2 in exon3 (A11471G, and T12495C). G142A and T12495C SNPs are both synonymous mutation. They showed 2 genotypes namely respectively (GG, GA) and (PP and PB). A11471G SNP is a missense mutation leading to the change of Alanine to Threonine  amino acid. It showed three genotypes namely AA, BB and AB. Analysis of association of polymorphism with body measurement traits at the three locus showed that there were significant effects on BMT in Qc, Jx and Ny cattle population. These results suggest that the GDF10 gene might have potential effects on body measurement traits in the above mentioned cattle populations and  could be used for marker-assisted selection.

21831322	Genome-wide association analysis of thirty one production, health, reproduction and body conformation traits in contemporary U.S. Holstein cows. BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association analysis is a powerful tool for annotating phenotypic effects on the genome and knowledge of genes and chromosomal regions associated with dairy phenotypes is useful for genome and gene-based selection. Here, we report results of a genome-wide analysis of predicted transmitting ability (PTA) of 31 production, health, reproduction and body conformation traits in contemporary Holstein cows. RESULTS: Genome-wide association analysis identified a number of candidate genes  and chromosome regions associated with 31 dairy traits in contemporary U.S. Holstein cows. Highly significant genes and chromosome regions include: BTA13's GNAS region for milk, fat and protein yields; BTA7's INSR region and BTAX's LOC520057 and GRIA3 for daughter pregnancy rate, somatic cell score and productive life; BTA2's LRP1B for somatic cell score; BTA14's DGAT1-NIBP region for fat percentage; BTA1's FKBP2 for protein yields and percentage, BTA26's MGMT  and BTA6's PDGFRA for protein percentage; BTA18's 53.9-58.7 Mb region for service-sire and daughter calving ease and service-sire stillbirth; BTA18's PGLYRP1-IGFL1 region for a large number of traits; BTA18's LOC787057 for service-sire stillbirth and daughter calving ease; BTA15's CD82, BTA23's DST and  the MOCS1-LRFN2 region for daughter stillbirth; and BTAX's LOC520057 and GRIA3 for daughter pregnancy rate. For body conformation traits, BTA11, BTAX, BTA10, BTA5, and BTA26 had the largest concentrations of SNP effects, and PHKA2 of BTAX  and REN of BTA16 had the most significant effects for body size traits. For body  shape traits, BTAX, BTA19 and BTA3 were most significant. Udder traits were affected by BTA16, BTA22, BTAX, BTA2, BTA10, BTA11, BTA20, BTA22 and BTA25, teat  traits were affected by BTA6, BTA7, BTA9, BTA16, BTA11, BTA26 and BTA17, and feet/legs traits were affected by BTA11, BTA13, BTA18, BTA20, and BTA26. CONCLUSIONS: Genome-wide association analysis identified a number of genes and chromosome regions associated with 31 production, health, reproduction and body conformation traits in contemporary Holstein cows. The results provide useful information for annotating phenotypic effects on the dairy genome and for building consensus of dairy QTL effects.

21854943	A whole-genome association analysis of noncompensatory fertility in Holstein bulls. Increasing fertility in dairy cattle is an important goal. Male infertility represents a part of the overall infertility in dairy cattle and can be partitioned into compensatory and noncompensatory components, where compensatory  refers to infertility that can be overcome by increasing sperm number and noncompensatory infertility represents the remainder, presumably due to molecular and genomic defects. Through estimation of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) association with noncompensatory bull fertility, it is possible to identify regions of the genome influential to this trait. Use of this information in selection can allow for an increase in cattle fertility, resulting in economic benefits. In this study, high-density SNP genotypes and noncompensatory fertility data from 795 Holstein sires were used to examine SNP associations with fertility. A Bayes B analysis was performed to develop information for genomic selection and to identify genomic regions associated with noncompensatory fertility. A cross-validation approach was used to assess the effectiveness of the models within the original set of 795 bulls. Correlations of predicted and observed fertility values were approximately 0.145 in cross-validation.

21881942	Effects of acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyl transferase 1 (DGAT1) gene on milk production traits in crossbred Holstein dairy cattle. The objective of this study was to analyze and investigate the genotype frequency and the association between Acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase1 gene, DGAT1  gene, and milk yield (MY), milk composition, protein yield (PY), fat yield (FY),  solid not fat yield (SNF), total solid (TS), the content of fat, protein, solid not fat, and total solid, (%Fat,%Prot,%SNF,%TS) in two herds of crossbred Holstein dairy cattle in Thailand. Two hundred and twenty-seven crossbred Holstein cows were used and their blood samples were taken for the study. PCR-RFLP was used to identify the allele and genotype of DGAT1 gene. A general linear model and the least square method were used to estimate the least square mean and additive, and the dominant effect of the gene on the traits and the least significant differences were used to compare the mean of each trait between genotypes. Two alleles (K, A) and three genotypes (AA, KA, KK) were detected, the highest allele and genotype frequencies were A and AA, respectively. The least mean squares of each genotype were compared and significant differences between genotype were detected. Genotype KK has the greatest effect on all milk composition content traits, while genotype AA has the greatest effect on yield traits. Highly significant additive gene effect was detected. From the results, it can be concluded that the DGAT1 gene can be used as a gene marker for assisted selection in milk composition traits.

21890501	Leptin gene haplotypes are associated with change in immunological and hematological variables in dairy cow during the peripartum period. In this study, the effect of polymorphisms in the leptin gene on the hematological variables in periparturient dairy cows was investigated. The hematological profile of 67 Holstein cows was assessed for 6 wk around calving. The DNA of the cows was genotyped at 6 polymorphic loci within the leptin gene, and 7 haplotypes were reconstructed. Significant haplotype substitution effects were found, for haplotype 1, on total white blood cell count for 2 wk around calving (+0.70 10(3)/L, P = 0.05; +1.38 10(3)/L, P = 0.0001); on neutrophil cell count in the first week after calving (+0.94 10(3)/L, P = 0.001); on lymphocyte count during the 3 wk before and the first week after calving (+0.32 10(3)/L, P = 0.05; +0.27 10(3)/L, P = 0.03; +0.26 10(3)/L, P = 0.04; +0.34 10(3)/L, P = 0.01); on red blood cell count during the last week before calving  and wk 1 and 2 after calving (+0.21 10(6)/L, P = 0.02; +0.23 10(6)/L, P = 0.01; +0.20 10(6)/L, P = 0.03); on mean corpuscular volume (-1.35 fL, P = 0.01; -1.29  fL, P = 0.002; -1.18 fL, P = 0.004; -1.09 fL, P = 0.008; -1.23 fL, P = 0.003; -1.31 fL, P = 0.003); and on mean corpuscular hemoglobin (-0.37 pg, P = 0.05; -0.38 pg, P = 0.02; -0.39 pg, P = 0.01; -0.34 pg, P = 0.03; -0.40 pg, P = 0.01; -0.40 pg, P = 0.01) during all 6 wk analyzed. Significant haplotype substitution  effects, but opposite those of haplotype-1, were found for haplotype-2 on white blood cell count (-1.10 10(3)/L, P = 0.01; -1.30 10(3)/L, P = 0.002; -1.09 10(3)/L, P = 0.01) and neutrophil count (-0.82 10(3)/L, P = 0.02; -0.95 10(3)/L, P = 0.005; -0.92 10(3)/L, P = 0.01). Haplotype-3 influenced red blood  cell count (-0.23 10(6)/L, P = 0.03; -0.28 10(6)/L, P = 0.01; -0.34 10(6)/L, P = 0.002) during the last 2 wk before and the first week after calving, and also,  with effects evident only in wk 3 and 2 before calving, mean corpuscular volume (+1.38 fL, P = 0.03; +0.97 fL, P = 0.05; +1.08 fL, P = 0.05), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (+0.58 pg, P = 0.02; +0.38 pg, P = 0.04; 0.51 pg, P = 0.01), and red blood cell distribution width (-0.56% P = 0.02; -0.47%, P = 0.05). The current study provided evidence that several polymorphisms in the leptin gene play a role in the variability of hematological variables during the peripartum period, and might be used as genetic markers for improving the immunological conditions of dairy cows in critical productive periods.

21906097	Quantitative trait loci for clinical mastitis on chromosomes 2, 6, 14 and 20 in Norwegian Red cattle. Mastitis is the most frequent and costly disease in dairy production and solutions leading to a reduction in the incidence of mastitis are highly demanded. Here a genome-wide association study was performed to identify polymorphisms affecting susceptibility to mastitis. Genotypes for 17 349 SNPs distributed across the 29 bovine autosomal chromosomes from a total of 2589 sires with 1 389 776 daughters with records on clinical mastitis were included in the analysis. Records of occurrence of clinical mastitis were divided into seven time periods in the first three lactations in order to identify quantitative trait loci affecting mastitis susceptibility in particular phases of lactation. The most convincing results from the association mapping were followed up and validated by a combined linkage disequilibrium and linkage analysis. The study revealed quantitative trait loci affecting occurrence of clinical mastitis in the periparturient period on chromosomes 2, 6 and 20 and a quantitative trait locus affecting occurrence of clinical mastitis in late lactation on chromosome 14. None of the quantitative trait loci for clinical mastitis detected in the study seemed to affect lactation average of somatic cell score. The SNPs highly associated with clinical mastitis lie near both the gene encoding interleukin 8 on chromosome 6 and the genes encoding the two interleukin 8 receptors on chromosome 2.

21906098	Genome-wide association mapping in Norwegian Red cattle identifies quantitative trait loci for fertility and milk production on BTA12. Reproductive performance is a critical trait in dairy cattle. Poor reproductive performance leads to prolonged calving intervals, higher culling rates and extra  expenses related to multiple inseminations, veterinary treatments and replacements. Genetic gain for improved reproduction through traditional selection is often slow because of low heritability and negative correlations with production traits. Detection of DNA markers associated with improved reproductive performance through genome-wide association studies could lead to genetic gain that is more balanced between fertility and production. Norwegian Red cattle are well suited for such studies, as very large numbers of detailed reproduction records are available. We conducted a genome-wide association study  for non-return rate, fertility treatments and retained placenta using almost 1 million records on these traits and 17 343 genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Genotyping costs were minimized by genotyping the sires of the cows recorded and by using daughter averages as phenotypes. The genotyped sires were assigned to either a discovery or a validation population. Associations were only considered to be validated if they were significant in both groups. Strong associations were found and validated on chromosomes 1, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 12. Several of these were highly supported by findings in other studies. The most important result was an association for non-return rate in heifers in a region of BTA12 where several associations for milk production traits have previously been  found. Subsequent fine-mapping verified the presence of a quantitative trait loci (QTL) having opposing effects on non-return rate and milk production at 18 Mb. The other reproduction QTL did not have pleiotropic effects on milk production, and these are therefore of considerable interest for use in marker-assisted selection.

21906108	Sequence variants in the bovine nucleophosmin 1 gene, their linkage and their associations with body weight in native cattle breeds in China. The nucleophosmin (nucleolar phosphoprotein B23, numatrin) gene (NPM1, previously known as nucleophosmin/nucleoplasmin family, member 1) encodes a multifunctional  nucleolar phosphoprotein that plays a crucial role in cell growth and homeostasis. Seven sequence variants (SVs) were identified in the coding region of bovine NPM1, five of which were in complete linkage disequilibrium. Eight different haplotypes were identified, of which two major haplotypes have a frequency of 23.2% and 20.4%. Three SVs were significantly associated with body weight in the Nanyang population as analysed at different ages. No significant association was detected between 18 combined genotypes and body weight at five different ages. Our results suggest that some polymorphisms in NPM1 are associated with body weight at some ages and may be used as candidates for marker-assisted selection and management in beef cattle breeding programmes.

21917388	Association between leptin single nucleotide polymorphism and reproductive performance of lactating Holstein cows. The objectives of the current study were to evaluate the associations among reproductive performance of Holstein cows, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the R4C locus of the Exon-2 region of the leptin gene and health disorders. Lactating dairy cows (n=814) had their DNA sequenced at the Exon-2 region of the  leptin gene to determine the presence of SNP in the R4C locus. Cows had the stage of estrous cycle synchronized with two injections of PGF(2) 14d apart, with or without a progesterone insert. After the second PGF(2), cows were either inseminated on detected estrus and, if not inseminated within 13d, cows were submitted to a timed artificial insemination (AI) protocol 13d after the second PGF(2). Blood was sampled at 353, 493, and 623d in milk (DIM) and cows with progesterone <1.0ng/mL in the first two samples were considered to be anovular, whereas those with at least one of the first two samples with progesterone 1.0ng/mL were considered to have initiated estrous cyclicity. Anovular cows with progesterone 1.0ng/mL at 623DIM were considered to have resumed estrous cyclicity. Pregnancy was diagnosed at 31 and 60d after first postpartum AI and at 42d after subsequent inseminations. Resulting genotypes were CC (34.6%), CT (48.2%), and TT (17.2%). Leptin genotype was associated (P=0.03) with increased prevalence of estrous cyclic cows at 493DIM, as TT cows were and tended to be less likely to be estrous cyclic than CC and CT cows, respectively. Other measures of reproductive performance in the first 305DIM were not associated with leptin genotype. Cows diagnosed with at least one postparturient disease were less likely to become pregnant after first (P<0.01) and second (P=0.02) AI and to be pregnant at 305DIM (P<0.01). Furthermore, cows diagnosed with a disease event  had a 36% reduction (P<0.001) in the rate of pregnancy, which extended the median interval to pregnancy by 60d. Estrous cyclic cows had a 35% increased rate of pregnancy, which reduced the interval to pregnancy by 34d. Cows homozygous for the T allele were less likely to be cyclic early postpartum, but leptin genotype  was not associated with other reproductive responses when cows were subjected to  a controlled breeding program.

21948744	Molecular cloning, characterization and association analysis of the promoter region of the bovine CDK6 gene. Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) is a key element of D-type cyclin holoenzymes. It is involved in the regulation of the G1-phase of the cell cycle and is considered to be an important candidate gene for selection of body measurement traits through marker-assisted selection. We cloned the promoter sequence of this gene in bovines and found it to share high similarity with that of the human CDK6 promoter. A 2271-bp sequence upstream of the start codon in the bovine CDK6 5'-flanking sequence is rich in GC; it lacks consensus TATA or CAAT box, but it contains several MZF1 binding sites. Other potential cis-regulatory elements were found in the 5'-flanking region, including CdxA, SRY, p300, GATA-1, and deltaE. Allele frequencies were also analyzed in various cattle breeds (Qinchuan, Qinchuan improvement steers, Nanyang, Jiaxian red, Xia'nan, Luxi, Simmental and Luxi crossbred steers, and Xuelong) and association with a selected single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was calculated. The T-1075C SNP in the promoter was found to be significantly associated with body length and heart girth. This SNP marker was found to be significantly associated with body length and the heart girth in 737 individuals. We conclude that this SNP of the CDK6 gene has potential as a genetic marker for important body traits in bovine reproduction and breeding.

21948746	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 genes are associated with milk production, body condition score and fertility traits in dairy cows. The somatotrophic axis (GH-IGF) is a key regulator of animal growth and development, affecting performance traits that include milk production, growth rate, body composition, and fertility. The aim of this study was to quantify the  association of previously identified SNPs in bovine growth hormone (GH1) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) genes with direct performance trait measurements of lactation and fertility in Holstein-Friesian lactating dairy cows. Sixteen SNPs in both IGF-1 and GH1 were genotyped across 610 cows and association analyses were carried out with traits of economic importance including calving interval, pregnancy rate to first service and 305-day milk production, using animal linear mixed models accounting for additive genetic effects. Two IGF-1 SNPs, IGF1i1 and IGF1i2, were significantly associated with body condition score at calving, while a single IGF-1 SNP, IGF1i3, was significantly associated with milk production, including milk yield (means  SEM; 751.3  262.0 kg), fat yield (21.3  10.2 kg) and protein yield (16.5  8.0 kg) per lactation. Only one GH1 SNP, GH33, was significantly associated with milk protein yield in the second lactation (allele substitution effect of 9.8  5.0 kg). Several GH1 SNPs were significantly associated with fertility, including GH32, GH35 and GH38 with calving to third parity (22.4  11.3 days) (GH32 and GH38 only), pregnancy rate to first service (0.1%) and overall pregnancy rate (0.05%). The results of this study demonstrate the effects of variants of the somatotrophic axis on milk production and fertility traits in commercial dairy cattle.

21948757	Molecular characterization, polymorphism of the ACOX1 gene and association with ultrasound traits in Bos taurus. Acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1 (ACOX1) is the first enzyme in peroxisomal fatty acid -oxidation; it is rate-limiting and plays a key role in fatty acid metabolism and fat deposition. ACOX1 is an important candidate gene for meat quality selection through marker-assisted selection. Genomic structural analysis showed that bovine ACOX1 shares 86% identity with human ACOX1. Using PCR-SSCP technology, we discovered a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (A1865C) in exon 13 of the ACOX1 gene. Allele frequencies of this SNP were investigated and evaluated with the (2) test in 641 cattle populations; only the Jiaxian red population was not in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Gene heterozygosity, effective  allele numbers and polymorphism information content of the bovine ACOX1 locus in  seven populations varied from 0.2778 to 0.4954, 1.3846 to 1.9817 and 0.2392 to 0.3727, respectively. We also looked for a potential association of this SNP with ultrasound traits in 327 individuals and found a significant effect on ultrasound backfat thickness and ultrasound marbling score (P < 0.05). Meat quality traits were analyzed in another 71 Qinchuan individuals to determine associations with genotype. Animals with genotype AA had higher mean values of backfat thickness than those with genotypes AC and CC. A represents the base before mutation and C  represents the base after mutation. We conclude that this SNP of the ACOX1 gene has potential as a genetic marker for meat quality traits in cattle reproduction  and breeding.

21960012	Genetic association of phosphodiesterase 1B (PDE1B) with carcass traits in Korean cattle. Quantitative trait loci for fat deposition and carcass traits have been identified in the vicinity of the gene encoding phosphodiesterase 1B (PDE1B) on bovine chromosome 5. Therefore, the PDE1B gene can be considered as a positional  and functional candidate gene for carcass traits in beef cattle. This study aimed to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the PDE1B gene and to evaluate their associations with carcass traits in Korean cattle. Eight SNPs, g.440T>G, g.17122A>G, g.17507A>C, g.17575A>G, g.17607T>C, g.17609C>A, g.17692C>T, and g.17707C>G, were identified in the region ranged from exon 1 to intron 6. Five of them were used for association analysis because of their availability of  restriction fragment length polymorphisms. As a result, g.17122A>G in intron 3 was significantly associated with backfat thickness (BFT), and g.17507A>C in exon 5 was associated with longissimus dorsi muscle area (LMA, P<0.05). Animals with the AG genotype of g.17122 had thicker BFT than those with the AA genotype. Animals with the AA or AC genotype of g.17507A>C had larger LMA than those with the CC genotype. We suggested the PDE1B gene as a candidate gene for carcass traits of beef cattle. Fine mapping would be required for application to marker-assisted selection.

21968622	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in CAPN and leptin genes associated with meat color and tenderness in Nellore cattle. We analyzed single nucleotide polymorphisms in calpain, leptin, leptin receptor,  and growth hormone receptor genes and their association with color, drip and cooking losses of longissimus muscle at 7, 14 and 21 days postmortem in 638 purebred Nellore bulls slaughtered between 22 and 26 months of age. Meat samples  were vacuum-packed and aged at 4C. The single nucleotide polymorphisms T945M, GHR2, E2FB, and CAPN4751 were evaluated. All genotypic classes were observed; however, the T/T genotype of T945M and E2FB was found at a low frequency. A significant association of E2FB with drip loss (a measure of water-holding capacity) was detected at seven days of meat aging. CAPN4751 had an additive effect on red and yellow color intensities. The T allele of CAPN4751 was found to be positively associated with improved meat color, but not with meat tenderness,  differing from a previous report indicating that it is associated with meat tenderness. We conclude that the potential for use of CAPN4751 as a marker for these meat quality traits requires further research.

21968624	A novel SNP of the C/EBP gene associated with superior meat quality in indigenous Chinese cattle. CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP) is an essential transcriptional factor regulating the differentiation of adipocytes. We report a novel single nucleotide polymorphism (C271A) of the C/EBP gene in six indigenous Chinese cattle breeds using PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods. Allele frequencies were  investigated and evaluated by the (2) test in 817 individuals; all populations were found to be in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Gene heterozygosity, effective allele numbers and polymorphism information content of the C/EBP locus varied from 0.50 to 0.54, 1.84 to 1.99 and 0.35 to 0.37, respectively. We also evaluated a potential association of the C/EBP SNP with ultrasound traits in 555 individuals; individuals of the AA genotype had greater ultrasound backfat thickness than did genotype CC (0.36 versus 0.34 cm, P < 0.01); genotypes AA and  CA had higher ultrasound marbling scores than did genotype CC (3.53, 3.52 versus  3.37, P < 0.05). Analysis based on meat quality data in another 204 Qinchuan cattle showed that animals with genotype AA had bigger loin eye areas than did genotype CA (87.10 versus 79.08 cm(2), P < 0.05). These results indicate that the C271A SNP of the C/EBP gene could be used as a molecular marker for selecting beef cattle with superior carcass traits.

21968681	Association between IGF2 and CYP21 gene polymorphisms and characteristics of economic interest in Nellore cattle. We analyzed two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the IGF2 and CYP21 genes in Nellore cattle participating in the Brazilian Animal Breeding Program. The SNPs were found in exon 6 of the IGF2 (insulin-like growth factor 2) gene (RFLP/MboII) as well as in the promoter region of the CYP21 (steroid 21-hydroxylase) gene (RFLP/HpaII) of these animals. The TC heterozygotes were significantly more frequent than CC and TT homozygotes in the RFLP/MboII polymorphism. The T allele was significantly more frequent than the C allele in RFLP/HpaII polymorphism. This population was found to be in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium for these SNPs. Association of these polymorphisms with expected progeny differences of reproductive and productive traits was investigated, but proved to be significant only for DP550 (expected progeny differenced for weight  at 365 days - IGF2 - RFLP/MboII) and DP450 (expected progeny differenced for weight at 450 days - CYP21 - RFLP/HpaII). This is the first study on the occurrence of these two polymorphisms in this Zebu breed of cattle. A total of 147 Nellore animals participating in the Breeding Program of the Nellore Breed (PMGRN) under the management of the National Association of Breeders and Researchers (ANCP) in the city of Ribeiro Preto were analyzed.

22008563	Association of milk protein genes with fertilization rate and early embryonic development in Holstein dairy cattle. Concomitant with intensive selection for increased milk yield, reproductive performance of dairy cows has declined in the last decades, in part due to an unfavourable genetic relationship between these traits. Given that the six main milk protein genes (i.e. whey proteins and caseins) are directly involved in milk production and hence have been a target of the strong selection aimed at improving milk yield in dairy cattle, we hypothesized that these genes could show selection footprints associated with fertility traits. In this study, we used an  in-vitro fertilization (IVF) system to test genetic association between 66 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the four caseins (S1-casein, S2-casein, -casein and -casein) and the two whey protein genes (-lactalbumin and -lactoglobulin) with fertilization rate and early embryonic development in the Holstein breed. A total of 6893 in-vitro fertilizations were performed and a total of 4661 IVF embryos were produced using oocytes from 399 ovaries and semen  samples from 12 bulls. Associations between SNPs and fertility traits were analysed using a mixed linear model with genotype as fixed effect and ovary and bull as random effects. A multiple testing correction approach was used to account for the correlation between SNPs due to linkage disequilibrium. After correction, polymorphisms in the LALBA and LGB genes showed significant associations with fertilization success and blastocyst rate. No significant associations were detected between SNPs located in the casein region and IVF fertility traits. Although the molecular mechanisms underlying the association between whey protein genes and fertility have not yet been characterized, this study provides the first evidence of association between these genes and fertility traits. Furthermore, these results could shed light on the antagonistic relationship that exists between milk yield and fertility in dairy cattle.

22008953	Polymorphisms in the bovine HSP90AB1 gene are associated with heat tolerance in Thai indigenous cattle. Heat shock proteins act as molecular chaperones that have preferentially been transcribed in response to severe perturbations of the cellular homeostasis such  as heat stress. Here the traits respiration rate (RR), rectal temperature (RT), pack cell volume (PCV) and the individual heat tolerance coefficient (HTC) were recorded as physiological responses on heat stress (environmental temperatures) in Bos taurus (crossbred Holstein Friesian; HF) and B. indicus (Thai native cattle: White Lamphun; WL and Mountain cattle; MT) animals (n = 47) in Thailand.  Polymorphisms of the heat shock protein 90-kDa beta gene (HSP90AB1) were evaluated by comparative sequencing. Nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were identified, i.e. three in exons 10 and 11, five in introns 8, 9, 10 and 11,  and one in the 3'UTR. The exon 11 SNP g.5082C>T led to a missense mutation (alanine to valine). During the period of extreme heat (in the afternoon) RR and  RT were elevated in each of the three breeds, whereas the PCV decreased. Mountain cattle and White Lamphun heifers recorded significantly better physiologic parameters (p < 0.05) in all traits considered, including or particularly HTC than Holstein Friesian heifers. The association analysis revealed that the T allele at SNP g.4338T>C within intron 3 improved the heat tolerance (p < 0.05). Allele T was exclusively found in White Lamphun animals and to 84% in Mountain cattle. Holstein Friesian heifers revealed an allele frequency of only 18%. Polymorphisms within HSP90AB1 were not causative for the physiological responses; however, we propose that they should at least be used as genetic markers to select appropriate breeds for hot climates.

22030336	Six novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms in SPAG11 gene and their association with sperm quality traits in Chinese Holstein bulls. Sperm-associated antigen 11 (SPAG11) is predominant in the male reproductive tract. Similar to -defensin, aside from its antibacterial activity, SPAG11 also  has an important role in male reproductive function. In the present study, the association of bovine SPAG11 gene polymorphism with sperm quality traits was examined, including ejaculate volume, sperm concentration, fresh sperm motility,  post-thaw cryopreserved sperm motility, and deformity rate of bull semen. Six novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the SPGA11 gene were investigated in 426 normal mature Chinese Holstein bulls using polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP), PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP), created restriction site-PCR (CRS-PCR),  and DNA sequencing methods. Linkage disequilibrium analysis showed that g.1306G>A and g.1454G>A (SNP-1), and g.16904G>T, g.16974C>T, and g.17000A>G (SNP-2) are completely linked, respectively. Correlation analysis showed the SNP-2 marker had a marked effect on fresh sperm motility and sperm concentration (P<0.05). SNP-3 g.22696T>C had a marked effect on post-thaw cryopreserved sperm motility (P<0.05) and deformity rate (P<0.01). However, the presence of SNP-1 was not correlated with the sperm production traits (P>0.05). Furthermore, association analyses of the 8 haplotypes constructed from the 17 combined haplotypes and reproductive traits showed that the bulls with the combined haplotype H5H6 (GGT/TTC) have the  highest ejaculate volumes and the bulls with combined haplotypes H1H1 (AAT/TTT) and H1H6 (AGT/TTC) had the highest fresh and post-thaw sperm motilities, respectively. These results indicate that new molecular markers associated with sperm quality traits can be used in marker-assisted selection in bull breeding programs.

22034997	Association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the ANKRA2 and CD180 genes with bovine respiratory disease and presence of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis(1). The objective was to determine whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in  the ANKRA2 and CD180 genes are associated with incidence of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) and presence of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) in cattle. Two independent populations were used. The first population (BRD-affected; N=90) was composed of 31 half-sib progeny, from a Brahman  Angus sire, that were treated for BRD. Untreated offspring from the sire were selected to serve as controls. The second population (MAP-infected) of 330 animals of unknown parentage was evaluated for the presence of MAP in ileocecal lymph node and classified as positive or negative. Markers in both genes were assessed for association in these two populations. In the BRD-affected population, five SNPs in the ANKRA2 gene were significantly associated (P<0.05), and two SNPs were highly associated (P<0.01) with incidence of BRD. In addition, two SNPs in the CD180 gene were found to be associated with this trait. In the MAP-infected population, one SNP in the ANKRA2 gene was significantly associated (P<0.05) with the presence or absence of MAP, and a SNP in the CD180 gene was highly associated (P<0.01) with the trait. Haplotypes, using significant markers, showed a positive association with both incidence of BRD (P=0.0001) and with the presence of MAP (P=0.0032). Markers  in the ANKRA2 and CD180 genes are associated with the ability of the animal to cope with pathogens.

22034999	A genome-wide association study of direct gestation length in US Holstein and Italian Brown populations. Direct gestation length influences economically important traits in dairy cattle  that are related to birth and peri-natal survival of the calf. The objective of this study was to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are significantly associated with direct gestation length through a genome-wide association study. Data used in the analysis included 7,308,194 cow gestation lengths from daughters of 4743 United States Holstein sires in the Cooperative Dairy DNA Repository population and 580,157 gestation lengths from 749 sires in the Italian Brown population. Association analysis included 36,768 and 35,082 SNPs spanning all autosomes for Holstein and Brown Swiss, respectively. Multiple  shrinkage Bayesian was employed. Estimates of heritability for both populations were moderate, with values of 0.32 (0.03) and 0.29 (0.02) for Holstein and Brown Swiss, respectively. A panel of SNPs was identified, which included SNPs that have significant effects on direct gestation length, of which the strongest  candidate region is located on chromosome 18. Two regions not previously linked to direct calving ease and calf survival were identified on chromosome 7 and 28,  corresponding to regions that contain genes related to embryonic development and  foetal development. SNPs were also identified in regions that have been previously mapped for calving difficulty and longevity. This study identifies target regions for the investigation of direct foetal effects, which are a significant factor in determining the ease of calving.

22035000	Genetic mapping of quantitative trait loci for meat quality and muscle metabolic  traits in cattle. A whole-genome scan was carried out in New Zealand and Australia to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for live animal and carcass composition traits and  meat quality attributes in cattle. Backcross calves (385 heifers and 398 steers)  were generated, with Jersey and Limousin backgrounds. The New Zealand cattle were reared and finished on pasture, whilst Australian cattle were reared on grass and finished on grain for at least 180 days. This paper reports on meat quality traits (tenderness measured as shear force at 4-5 ages on two muscles as well as  associated traits of meat colour, pH and cooking loss) and a number of metabolic  traits. For meat quality traits, 18 significant QTL (P<0.05), located in nine linkage groups, were detected on a genome-wise basis, in combined-sire (seven QTL) or within-sire analyses (11 QTL). For metabolic traits, 11 significant QTL (P<0.05), located in eight linkage groups, were detected on a genome-wise basis, in combined-sire (five QTL) or within-sire analyses (six QTL). BTA2 and BTA3 had QTL for both metabolic traits and meat quality traits. Six significant QTL for meat quality and metabolic traits were found at the proximal end of chromosome 2. BTA2 and BTA29 were the most common chromosomes harbouring QTL for  meat quality traits; QTL for improved tenderness were associated with Limousin-derived and Jersey-derived alleles on these two chromosomes, respectively.

22035007	The SNP c.1326T>G in the non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G (NCAPG) gene encoding a p.Ile442Met variant is associated with an increase in body frame size  at puberty in cattle. Recently, we had located a bovine carcass weight QTL, CW-2, to a 591-kb interval  on BTA6 and have identified the SNP c.1326T>G in the NCAPG (non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G) gene that leads to the amino acid change p.Ile442Met in the NCAPG protein, which is a candidate causative variation. Here, we examined the association of the NCAPG:c.1326T>G locus with linear skeletal measurements of growth-associated traits during adolescence, which is a period of intensive growth, using two historically and geographically distant cattle populations: 792 Japanese Black steers and 161 F(2) bulls of an experimental cross from Charolais  and German Holstein. In both populations, the SNP NCAPG:c.1326T>G was associated  with each component of body frame size: height, length and width at puberty. The  associations of CW-2 with height- and length-associated traits were observed at an earlier growth period compared to the associations with thickness- and width-associated traits, indicating that the primary effect of the CW-2 QTL may possibly be exerted on skeletal growth. The significant associations of the NCAPG:c.1326T>G locus with growth-associated skeletal measurements are similar to the effects of the syntenic region on human chromosome 4 that are associated with adult height in humans, supporting the hypothesis that CW-2 is analogous to the human locus and pointing to a conserved growth-associated locus or chromosomal region present in both species.

22035008	Polymorphisms of the SLC11A1 gene and resistance to bovine tuberculosis in African Zebu cattle. Bovine tuberculosis (BTB) is a considerable health threat to livestock keepers and general communities in many developing countries. Information on genetic resistance or susceptibility because of polymorphisms of candidate genes could be used in making selection decisions for breeding disease tolerant/resistant animals. Here, we investigated associations between polymorphisms at the solute carrier family 11 (proton-coupled divalent metal ion transporters), member 1 gene (SLC11A1, previously known as natural resistant associated macrophage protein 1,  NRAMP1), with BTB phenotypes in Chadian cattle. Phenotypes were (i) single intradermal comparative cervical tuberculin test (SICCT) outcome, (ii) presence of gross visible lung lesions, (iii) a bacteriological culture test outcome and (iv) a predicted true BTB infection status using a Bayesian model. All traits were recorded as binary (presence or absence) traits. A total of 211 cattle were  genotyped for a microsatellite within the SLC11A1 candidate gene. Standard linear and threshold-liability models regressing BTB traits on copy number of SLC11A1 alleles revealed statistically significant effects of SLC11A1 alleles (P<0.001) on most BTB traits. Polymorphisms (alleles 211, 215 and 217) are significantly related to lower incidence of BTB traits in Chadian cattle. This is the first study to report the association of SLC11A1 gene polymorphisms with BTB traits in  Chadian or any other African cattle breeds.

22058003	Quantitative trait loci affecting lactose and total solids on chromosome 6 in Brazilian Gir dairy cattle. Fourteen Brazilian Gir sire families with 657 daughters were analyzed for quantitative trait loci (QTL) on chromosome 6 affecting lactose and total solids. Cows and sires were genotyped with 27 microsatellites with a mean spacing between markers of 4.9 cM. We used a 1% chromosome-wide threshold for QTL qualification.  A QTL for lactose yield was found close to marker MNB66 in three families. A QTL  for total solid yield was identified close to marker BMS2508 in three families. A QTL for lactose percentage, close to marker DIK1182, was identified in two families. A QTL for total solid percentage, close to marker MNB208, was identified in four families. These QTLs could be used for selection of animals in dairy production systems.

22073200	Genome-wide scan identifies loci associated with classical BSE occurrence. Classical bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) is an acquired prion disease that is invariably fatal in cattle and has been implicated as a significant human health risk. Sequence variations in the coding region of the prion gene (PRNP) have been associated with acquired transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE)  susceptibility in mammals; however, this is not the case in cattle. It has been hypothesized that genes, in addition to the prion gene, contribute to genetic susceptibility of acquired TSEs. Accordingly, genetic studies of classical BSE in cattle identified loci other than PRNP that are associated with disease incidence. The objective of this study was to utilize a genome-wide association study to test for genetic loci associated with classical BSE. The samples include 143 BSE affected (case) and 173 unaffected half sib (control) animals collected in the mid 1990s in Southern England. The data analysis identifies loci on two different chromosomes associated with BSE disease occurrence. Most notable is a single nucleotide polymorphism on chromosome 1 at 29.15 Mb that is associated with BSE disease (p = 3.09E-05). Additionally, a locus on chromosome 14, within a cluster of SNPs showed a trend toward significance (p = 5.24E-05). It is worth noting that in a human vCJD study markers on human chromosome 8, a region with shared synteny to the region identified on cattle chromosome 14, were associated  with disease. Further, our candidate genes appear to have plausible biological relevance with the known etiology of TSE disease. One of the candidate genes is hypothetical gene LOC521010, similar to FK506 binding protein 2 located on chromosome 1 at 29.32 Mb. This gene encodes a protein that is a member of the immunophilin protein family and is involved in basic cellular processes including protein folding. The chromosomal regions identified in this study and candidate genes within these regions merit further investigation.

22078495	Association of an ACSL1 gene variant with polyunsaturated fatty acids in bovine skeletal muscle. BACKGROUND: The intramuscular fat deposition and the fatty acid profiles of beef  affect meat quality. High proportions of unsaturated fatty acids are related to beef flavor and are beneficial for the nutritional value of meat. Moreover, a variety of clinical and epidemiologic studies showed that particularly long-chain omega-3 fatty acids from animal sources have a positive impact on human health and disease. RESULTS: To screen for genetic factors affecting fatty acid profiles in beef, we  initially performed a microsatellite-based genome scan in a F(2) Charolais  German Holstein resource population and identified a quantitative trait locus (QTL) for fatty acid composition in a region on bovine chromosome 27 where previously QTL affecting marbling score had been detected in beef cattle populations. The long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 1 (ACSL1) gene was identified as  the most plausible functional and positional candidate gene in the QTL interval due to its direct impact on fatty acid metabolism and its position in the QTL interval. ACSL1 is necessary for synthesis of long-chain acyl-CoA esters, fatty acid degradation and phospholipid remodeling. We validated the genomic annotation of the bovine ACSL1 gene by in silico comparative sequence analysis and experimental verification. Re-sequencing of the complete coding, exon-flanking intronic sequences, 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) and partial promoter region of the ACSL1 gene revealed three synonymous mutations in exons 6, 7, and 20, six noncoding intronic gene variants, six polymorphisms in the promoter region, and four variants in the 3' UTR region. The association analysis identified the gene  variant in intron 5 of the ACSL1 gene (c.481-233A>G) to be significantly associated with the relative content of distinct fractions and ratios of fatty acids (e.g., n-3 fatty acids, polyunsaturated, n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, trans vaccenic acid) in skeletal muscle. A tentative association of  the ACSL1 gene variant with intramuscular fat content indicated that an indirect  effect on fatty acid composition via modulation of total fat content of skeletal  muscle cannot be excluded. CONCLUSIONS: The initial QTL analysis suggested the ACSL1 gene as a positional and functional candidate gene for fatty acid composition in bovine skeletal muscle. The findings of subsequent association analyses indicate that ACSL1 or a  separate gene in close proximity might play a functional role in mediating the lipid composition of beef.

22095598	A novel polymorphism of the myogenin gene is associated with body measurement traits in native Chinese breeds. Using PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing technology, we examined the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bovine MyoG gene with body measurement traits in 779 individuals of six native Chinese cattle breeds, namely Luxi, Luxi  Simmental crossbred, Nanyang, Xia'nan, Jiaxian red, and Qinchuan. A  novel SNP, T314C, was detected. Allelic frequencies of MyoG-T/C in the six breeds were 0.8308/0.1692, 0.8774/0.1226, 0.8021/0.1979, 0.8209/0.1791, 0.8630/0.1370, 0.8044/0.1956, respectively. Least squares analysis revealed a significant (P < 0.05) association of the MyoG SNP with rump length in four breeds (Luxi, Xia'nan, Jiaxian red, and Qinchuan), with hucklebone width in three breeds (Luxi  Simmental crossbred, Nanyang and Xia'nan), with waist height in two breeds (Luxi   Simmental crossbred and Nanyang) and with body length in the Luxi breed. We conclude that the MyoG SNP has potential as a genetic marker for economically relevant body measurement traits in native Chinese cattle breeds.

22095607	Association between a single nucleotide polymorphism in the bovine chemerin gene  and carcass traits in Qinchuan cattle. Qinchuan is a red or yellow draft and beef breed in China. In order to identify a predictor of carcass traits on the basis of associations between carcass traits and gene polymorphism, variation in the bovine chemerin gene was investigated using PCR-single-strand conformational polymorphism and DNA sequencing. An SNP of A868G located in exon 2 of the Bos taurus chemerin gene was detected in 716 samples of six breeds (Jiaxian red, Luxi, Nan yang, Qinchuan, Simmental and Luxi  crossbred steers, and Xia'nan), all in China, and three genotypes (AA, AG and GG) were found. Based on the (2) test, the AA/AG/GG genotype frequencies of all six  breeds were found to be in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. A possible association of  A868G with some carcass traits was investigated in 106 Qinchuan cattle. Animals with the AG genotype were found to have significantly lower mean loin eye area and meat tenderness compared to those with the AA and GG genotypes. However, there was no significant association between any individual haplotype and backfat thickness, water holding capacity or marbling score. We suggest that A868G could  be used as a molecular marker in marker-assisted selection for carcass traits.

22100592	Relationship of polymorphisms within metabolic genes and carcass traits in crossbred beef cattle. Feed intake has been shown to alter neurological signaling related to feeding behavior and subsequent activation of adipogenic mechanisms. Fat characteristics  are pivotal for carcass and meat quality, including marbling score, flavor, and tenderness. The objective of this study was to establish the association of SNP,  from genes functionally related to fat metabolism and obesity, with growth, fat,  and carcass traits in steers. A total of 33 informative SNP from candidate genes  [cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), DNA-protein kinase (DNA-PK), fatty acid synthase (FASN), and fat mass and obesity associated (FTO)]  were used to genotype crossbred steers (n = 620), and associations with growth and carcass traits were assessed. Five markers within the DNA-PK gene were associated (P < 0.05) with fat thickness. One of these SNP was also associated (P < 0.05) with percent choice, yield grade, and retail product yield. Additionally, 2 unique DNA-PK SNP were associated (P < 0.05) with marbling score. Three haplotypes were observed using these SNP and were significantly (P = 0.0014) associated with marbling score. Slaughter weight, ADG, and HCW were associated (P < 0.05) with SNP from CART, FTO, and FASN. Data from this study indicate that polymorphisms within candidate genes have an indirect relationship with lipogenesis. Replication of these results within other populations will be necessary to establish if these markers will be successful as predictors of fatness components and carcass traits in cattle.

22100599	Genome-wide association studies of female reproduction in tropically adapted beef cattle. The genetics of reproduction is poorly understood because the heritabilities of traits currently recorded are low. To elucidate the genetics underlying reproduction in beef cattle, we performed a genome-wide association study using the bovine SNP50 chip in 2 tropically adapted beef cattle breeds, Brahman and Tropical Composite. Here we present the results for 3 female reproduction traits: 1) age at puberty, defined as age in days at first observed corpus luteum (CL) after frequent ovarian ultrasound scans (AGECL); 2) the postpartum anestrous interval, measured as the number of days from calving to first ovulation postpartum (first rebreeding interval, PPAI); and 3) the occurrence of the first  postpartum ovulation before weaning in the first rebreeding period (PW), defined  from PPAI. In addition, correlated traits such as BW, height, serum IGF1 concentration, condition score, and fatness were also examined. In the Brahman and Tropical Composite cattle, 169 [false positive rate (FPR) = 0.262] and 84 (FPR = 0.581) SNP, respectively, were significant (P < 0.001) for AGECL. In Brahman, 41% of these significant markers mapped to a single chromosomal region on BTA14. In Tropical Composites, 16% of these significant markers were located on BTA5. For PPAI, 66 (FPR = 0.67) and 113 (FPR = 0.432) SNP were significant (P  < 0.001) in Brahman and Tropical Composite, respectively, whereas for PW, 68 (FPR = 0.64) and 113 (FPR = 0.432) SNP were significant (P < 0.01). In Tropical Composites, the largest concentration of PPAI markers were located on BTA5 [19% (PPAI) and 23% (PW)], and BTA16 [17% (PPAI) and 18% (PW)]. In Brahman cattle, the largest concentration of markers for postpartum anestrus was located on BTA3 (14% for PPAI and PW) and BTA14 (17% PPAI). Very few of the significant markers for female reproduction traits for the Brahman and Tropical Composite breeds were located in the same chromosomal regions. However, fatness and BW traits as well as serum IGF1 concentration were found to be associated with similar genome regions within and between breeds. Clusters of SNP associated with multiple traits were located on BTA14 in Brahman and BTA5 in Tropical Composites.

22114848	Polymorphisms in genes in the SREBP1 signalling pathway and SCD are associated with milk fatty acid composition in Holstein cattle. Genes in the sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 (SREBP1) pathway play a  central role in regulation of milk fat synthesis, especially the de-novo synthesis of saturated fatty acids. SCD, a SREBP-responsive gene, is the key enzyme in the synthesis of monounsaturated fatty acids in the mammary gland. In the present study, we discovered SNP in candidate genes associated with this signalling pathway and SCD to identify genetic markers that can be used for genetic and metabolically directed selection in cattle. We resequenced six candidate genes in the SREBP1 pathway (SREBP1, SCAP, INSIG1, INSIG2, MBTPS1, MBTPS2) and two genes for SCD (SCD1 and SCD5) and discovered 47 Tag SNP that were used in a marker-trait association study. Milk and blood samples were collected from Holstein cows in their 1st or 2nd parity at 100-150 days of lactation. Individual fatty acids from C4 to C20, saturated fatty acid (SFA) content, monounsaturated fatty acid content, polyunsaturated fatty acid content and desaturase indexes were measured and used to perform the asociation analysis. Polymorphisms in the SCD5 and INSIG2 genes were the most representative markers associated with SFA/unsaturated fatty acid (UFA) ratio in milk. The analysis of desaturation activity determined that markers in the SCD1 and SCD5 genes showed the most significant effects. DGAT1 K232A marker was included in the study to examine the effect of this marker on the variation of milk fatty acids in our Holstein population. The percentage of variance explained by DGAT1 in the analysis was only 6% of SFA/UFA ratio. Milk fat depression was observed in one of the dairy herds and in this particular dairy one SNP in the SREBP1 gene (rs41912290) accounted for 40% of the phenotypic variance. Our results provide detailed SNP information for key genes in the SREBP1 signalling pathway and SCD that can be used to change milk fat composition by marker-assisted breeding to meet consumer demands regarding human health, as well as furthering understanding of technological aspects of cows' milk.

22155013	Three novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms of complement component 4 gene (C4A)  in Chinese Holstein cattle and their associations with milk performance traits and CH50. Complement component 4 (C4A) is a candidate gene that reflects complement activity. The primary role of this gene in the classical and lectin-activation pathways is to provide protection against bacterial pathogens. In the current study, the bovine complement C4A gene was screened for polymorphisms, and the associations of these polymorphisms with the hemolytic activity of the classical  pathway (CH50), C4 serum levels, and milk performance traits were examined. Three novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms (rs 132741478: g.2994 A>G, rs 134006517: g.3508 A>G, and rs 137485678: g.3649 G>C) were detected by DNA sequencing and PCR-RFLP in 1182 Chinese Holstein cows. The rs 132741478: g.2994 A>G mutation in  exon 10 led to methionine and valine exchange at position 362, whereas rs 134006517: g.3508 A>G and rs 137485678: g.3649 G>C were synonymous substitutions. The statistical analyses revealed that cows with rs 132741478: g.2994 A>G-AG and  rs 137485678: g.3649 G>C-CC have significantly lower somatic cell scores (SCS, P<0.01). Homozygote cows with GAC haplotypes have the lowest SCS, whereas AAG/AAC cows have the highest. The serum concentration of C4 by ELISA and the hemolytic and antibacterial activity of CH50 were also evaluated in the current study. The  results confirmed that rs 132741478: g.2994 A>G in the coding sequence of the -chain of the bovine C4A gene is related to mastitis resistance. This polymorphism may be very important in marker-assisted selections in dairy cattle  breeding programs.

22168586	Association, effects and validation of polymorphisms within the NCAPG - LCORL locus located on BTA6 with feed intake, gain, meat and carcass traits in beef cattle. BACKGROUND: In a previously reported genome-wide association study based on a high-density bovine SNP genotyping array, 8 SNP were nominally associated (P  0.003) with average daily gain (ADG) and 3 of these were also associated (P  0.002) with average daily feed intake (ADFI) in a population of crossbred beef cattle. The SNP were clustered in a 570 kb region around 38 Mb on the draft sequence of bovine chromosome 6 (BTA6), an interval containing several positional and functional candidate genes including the bovine LAP3, NCAPG, and LCORL genes. The goal of the present study was to develop and examine additional markers in this region to optimize the ability to distinguish favorable alleles, with potential to identify functional variation. RESULTS: Animals from the original study were genotyped for 47 SNP within or near the gene boundaries of the three candidate genes. Sixteen markers in the NCAPG-LCORL locus displayed significant association with both ADFI and ADG even after stringent correction for multiple testing (P  005). These markers were evaluated for their effects on meat and carcass traits. The alleles associated with higher ADFI and ADG were also associated with higher hot carcass weight (HCW) and ribeye area (REA), and lower adjusted fat thickness (AFT). A reduced set of markers was genotyped on a separate, crossbred population including genetic contributions from 14 beef cattle breeds. Two of the markers located within the LCORL gene locus remained significant for ADG (P  0.04). CONCLUSIONS: Several markers within the NCAPG-LCORL locus were significantly associated with feed intake and body weight gain phenotypes. These markers were also associated with HCW, REA and AFT suggesting that they are involved with lean growth and reduced fat deposition. Additionally, the two markers significant for  ADG in the validation population of animals may be more robust for the prediction of ADG and possibly the correlated trait ADFI, across multiple breeds and populations of cattle.

22179692	Genetic variants of the FABP4 gene are associated with marbling scores and meat quality grades in Hanwoo (Korean cattle). This study was aimed to search new genetic variants in the bovine FABP4 gene as molecular markers for meat quality and carcass traits. PCR-RFLP analysis revealed that three SNPs located at nucleotide positions g.2834C>G, g.3533T>A, and g.3691G>A were identified based on a GenBank accession number (NC_007312.4). Sequence analysis revealed that SNPs were located in intron 1 (g.2834C>G) and 2 (g.3533T>A), and an exon 3 (g.3691G>A), showing allele frequencies as 0.592, 0.579, and 0.789, respectively. Genetic variabilities of heterozygosity (He) and  polymorphic information contents (PIC) were estimated for g.2834C>G (0.608 and 0.531), g.3533T>A (0.615 and 0.539), and g.3691G>A (0.498 and 0.401) loci, respectively. A SNP located in the exon 3 of FABP4 was characterized and associated with desirable increases of MS (marbling scores) and MG (meat quality  grades) in Hanwoo. The statistical analysis revealed that additive effects by GG  genotypes in g.3691G>A SNP were significantly greater than AA genotypes in MS and MG traits. These findings suggest that the FABP4g.3691G>A SNP will be a useful candidate locus to maximize economic benefits for cattle populations.

22185682	Exploring polymorphisms and associations of the bovine MOGAT3 gene with growth traits. Monoacylglycerol acyltransferase (MGAT3, also known as MOGAT3) catalyzes the synthesis of diacylglycerol (DAG) using 2-monoacylglycerol and fatty acyl coenzyme A. This enzymatic reaction is believed to be an essential and rate-limiting step for the absorption of dietary fat in the small intestine. However, similar research for the bovine MOGAT3 gene is lacking. Therefore, in this paper, polymorphisms of the bovine MOGAT3 gene were detected in 1145 individuals from five cattle breeds by DNA pooling, PCR-RFLP, and DNA sequencing  methods. The results showed that 26 novel SNPs were identified, which included 16 mutations in the coding region and the others in the introns. Additionally, association analysis between two missense mutations, g.A229G and g.G1627A, and growth traits in Nanyang cattle up to 2 years of age and adult Qinchuan cattle was performed. The results indicated that polymorphisms were significantly associated with Nanyang cattle, but no convincing associations were observed for  Qinchuan cattle for the studied traits.

22192223	Association between milk protein gene variants and protein composition traits in  dairy cattle. The objective of this study was to identify DNA markers in the 4 casein genes (CSN1S1, CSN1S2, CSN2, and CSN3) and the 2 major whey protein genes (LALBA and LGB) that show associations with milk protein profile measured by reverse-phase HPLC. Fifty-three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were genotyped for cows in a unique resource population consisting of purebred Holstein and (Holstein  Jersey)  Holstein crossbred animals. Seven traits were analyzed, including concentrations of (S)-casein (CN), -CN, -CN, -lactalbumin, -lactoglobulin, and 2 additional secondary traits, the total concentration of the above 5 milk proteins and the (S)-CN to -CN ratio. A substantial fraction of phenotypic variation could be explained by the additive genetic component for the 7 milk protein composition traits studied. Moreover, several SNP were significantly associated with all examined traits at an experiment-wise error rate of 0.05, except for -lactalbumin. Importantly, the significant SNP explained a large proportion of the phenotypic variation of milk protein composition. Our findings  could be used for selecting animals that produce milk with desired composition or desired processing and manufacturing properties.

22194162	Back fat thickness and meat tenderness are associated with a 526 TA mutation in  the exon 1 promoter region of the MyF-5 gene in Chinese Bos taurus. Qualitative trait loci (QTL) for growth and meat quality traits in cattle (Bos taurus) have been previously mapped to three chromosome regions, 0 to 30, 55 to 70, and 70 to 80 cM on chromosome 5. We evaluated the allele frequencies and gene-specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of bovine myogenic factor 5  (MyF-5) in the QTL regions and their associations with live weight and meat characteristics in indigenous Chinese cattle breeds. PCR-SSCP methodology showed  a T>A mutation at 526 bp. Least square analysis revealed a significant association of this SNP with backfat thickness and meat tenderness (P < 0.05), while no significant association was found with live weight, loin eye height, loin eye area, rib area, or water holding capacity. Allele frequencies of MyF-5-A/B in the five breeds were 0.760/0.239, 0.752/0.247, 0.629/0.370, 0.715/0.284, and 0.750/0.250, for JiaXian red, Luxi, Nanyang, Qinchuan, and XiaNan crossbreed, respectively. The genotype distributions for these alleles in  two of the Chinese cattle breeds (Luxi and Qinchuan) were not in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P < 0.05); while those for the other three breeds (JiaXian red, Nanyang, and XiaNan) were in agreement with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (P > 0.05). The genotypic frequencies among all five cattle breeds showed moderate diversity (0.25 < polymorphism information content < 0.5). Based on our findings, we suggest that the MyF-5 gene influences back fat thickness and meat tenderness  in Chinese Bos taurus. This SNP could be useful for marker-assisted selection for meat quality traits in these cattle.

22194170	Genetic markers of body composition and carcass quality in grazing Brangus steers. The somatotropic axis is a major regulatory pathway of energy metabolism during postnatal growth in mammals. Genes involved in this pathway influence many economically important traits. The association of selected SNPs in these genes with carcass traits was examined in grazing Brangus steers. These traits included final live weight, ultrasound backfat thickness (UBFT), rib-eye area, kidney fat  weight, hot carcass weight, and intramuscular fat percentage (%IMF). Genomic DNA  (N = 246) was genotyped for a panel of 15 tag SNPs located in the growth hormone  receptor (GHR), insulin-like growth factor I, insulin-like growth factor-binding  protein 6, pro-melanin-concentrating hormone, suppressor of cytokine signaling 2, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6) genes. Allelic and haplotype frequencies were compared with those of a sample of European breeds (N  = 177 steers). Two tag SNPs in the GHR affected %IMF; one of them (ss86273136) was also strongly associated with UBFT (P < 0.003). The frequency of the most favorable GHR haplotype for %IMF was lower in Brangus steers. Moreover, the haplotype carrying two unfavorable alleles was present at a frequency of 31% in this group. Four tag SNPs on STAT6 had a significant effect on UBFT. One of these, SNP ss115492467, was also associated with %IMF. The STAT6 haplotype, including all the alleles favoring UBFT, was the most abundant variant (34%) in the European cattle, while it had a frequency of 14% in the Brangus steers. The four less favorable variants (absent in the European cattle) were found at a frequency of 38% in the Brangus steers. These results support the association of  GHR and STAT6 SNP with carcass traits in composite breeds, such as Brangus, under grazing conditions.

22216329	Haplotype analysis improved evidence for candidate genes for intramuscular fat percentage from a genome wide association study of cattle. In genome wide association studies (GWAS), haplotype analyses of SNP data are neglected in favour of single point analysis of associations. In a recent GWAS, we found that none of the known candidate genes for intramuscular fat (IMF) had been identified. In this study, data from the GWAS for these candidate genes were re-analysed as haplotypes. First, we confirmed that the methodology would find evidence for association between haplotypes in candidate genes of the calpain-calpastatin complex and musculus longissimus lumborum peak force (LLPF),  because these genes had been confirmed through single point analysis in the GWAS. Then, for intramuscular fat percent (IMF), we found significant partial haplotype substitution effects for the genes ADIPOQ and CXCR4, as well as suggestive associations to the genes CEBPA, FASN, and CAPN1. Haplotypes for these genes explained 80% more of the phenotypic variance compared to the best single SNP. For some genes the analyses suggested that there was more than one causative mutation in some genes, or confirmed that some causative mutations are limited to particular subgroups of a species. Fitting the SNPs and their interactions simultaneously explained a similar amount of the phenotypic variance compared to  haplotype analyses. Haplotype analysis is a neglected part of the suite of tools  used to analyse GWAS data, would be a useful method to extract more information from these data sets, and may contribute to reducing the missing heritability problem.

22221020	Identification of an FBN1 mutation in bovine Marfan syndrome-like disease. Mutations in the gene encoding fibrillin-1 (FBN1), a component of the extracellular microfibril, cause Marfan syndrome (MFS). Frequent observation of cattle with a normal withers height, but lower body weight than age-matched normal cattle, was recently reported among cattle sired by phenotypically normal  Bull A, in Japanese Black cattle. These cattle also showed other characteristic features similar to the clinical phenotype of human MFS, such as a long phalanx proximalis, oval face and crystalline lens cloudiness. We first screened a paternal half-sib family comprising 36 affected and 10 normal offspring of Bull A using the BovineSNP50 BeadChip (illumina). Twenty-two microsatellite markers mapped to a significant region on BTA10 were subsequently genotyped on the family. The bovine Marfan syndrome-like disease (MFSL) was mapped onto BTA10. As  FBN1 is located in the significant region, FBN1 was sequenced in Bull A, and three affected and one normal cattle. A G>A mutation at the intron64 splicing accepter site (c.8227-1G>A) was detected in 31 of 36 affected animals (84.7%). The c.8227-1G>A polymorphism was not found in 20 normal offspring of Bull A or in 93 normal cattle unrelated to Bull A. The mutation caused a 1-base shift of the intron64 splicing accepter site to the 3' direction, and a 1-base deletion in processed mRNA. This 1-base deletion creates a premature termination codon, and a 125-amino acid shorter Fibrillin-1 protein is produced from the mutant mRNA. We therefore conclude that the c.8227-1G>A mutation is causative for MFSL. Furthermore, it was suggested that Bull A exhibited germline mosaicism for the mutation, and that the frequency of the mutant sperm was 14.9%.

22221028	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the imprinted bovine insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor gene (IGF2R) are associated with body size traits in Irish Holstein-Friesian cattle. The regulation of the bioavailability of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) is critical for normal mammalian growth and development. The imprinted insulin-like  growth factor 2 receptor gene (IGF2R) encodes a transmembrane protein receptor that acts to sequester and degrade excess circulating insulin-like growth factor  2 (IGF-II) - a potent foetal mitogen - and is considered an important inhibitor of growth. Consequently, IGF2R may serve as a candidate gene underlying important growth- and body-related quantitative traits in domestic mammalian livestock. In  this study, we have quantified genotype-phenotype associations between three previously validated intronic bovine IGF2R single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (IGF2R:g.64614T>C, IGF2R:g.65037T>C and IGF2R:g.86262C>T) and a range of performance traits in 848 progeny-tested Irish Holstein-Friesian artificial insemination sires. Notably, all three polymorphisms analysed were associated (P0.05) with at least one of a number of performance traits related to animal  body size: angularity, body depth, chest width, rump width, and animal stature. In addition, the C-to-T transition at the IGF2R:g.65037T>C polymorphism was positively associated with cow carcass weight and angularity. Correction for multiple testing resulted in the retention of two genotype-phenotype associations (animal stature and rump width). None of the SNPs analysed were associated with any of the milk traits examined. Analysis of pairwise r(2) measures of linkage disequilibrium between all three assayed SNPs ranged between 0.41 and 0.79, suggesting that some of the observed SNP associations with performance may be independent. To our knowledge, this is one of the first studies demonstrating associations between IGF2R polymorphisms and growth- and body-related traits in cattle. These results also support the increasing body of evidence that imprinted genes harbour polymorphisms that contribute to heritable variation in phenotypic  traits in domestic livestock species.

22221029	Identification of polymorphisms in the malic enzyme 1, NADP(+)-dependent, cytosolic and nuclear receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 2 genes and their associations with meat and carcass quality traits in commercial Angus cattle. Genes involved in the physiological control of energy and triglyceride synthesis, such as malic enzyme 1, NADP(+)-dependent, cytosolic (ME1) and nuclear receptor subfamily 0, group B, member 2 (NR0B2), are key candidates that may have effects  on meat and carcass quality traits. These genes were sequenced in Aberdeen Angus  beef cattle, and the possibility of associations between SNPs and economically important carcass and meat quality traits was tested. Six novel SNPs, five in ME1 and one in NR0B2, were identified. A SNP in exon eight of ME1 resulted in a non-synonymous amino acid change from valine to isoleucine. Phenotypic data were  recorded on 536 commercial Aberdeen Angus-cross beef cattle, which comprised 28 carcass quality, tenderness and sensory traits. The majority of the SNPs were associated with at least one of these traits, including an association between the NR0B2 SNP and fat class, and associations between at least one of the ME1 SNPs and eye muscle area, sirloin weight before maturation, sirloin steak tail length, and juiciness.

22223295	Association of five candidate genes with fatty acid composition in Korean cattle. Fatty acid composition of meat is becoming more important due to consumer demand  for high quality and healthy foods. The present study evaluated the associations  of five candidate genes (FABP4, FASN, NR1H3, GH and SCD) with fatty acid composition in Korean cattle (Hanwoo). The g.3691G>A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the FABP4 gene had significant effects on high myristic acid (C14:0; P<0.01) and palmitic (C16:0; P<0.05) in animals having the GG genotype, and high arachidonic acid (C20:4; P<0.05) in the AA genotype of Hanwoo. The FASN SNP at position g.17924G>A was also significantly associated with myristic acid (P<0.01). In case of the SCD gene, a significant effect was  only observed in myristoleic acid (C14:1; P<0.01). However, SNPs in GH and NR1H3 genes showed no effects on fatty acid composition. The results indicate that SNPs in three candidate genes, FABP4, FASN and SCD, may be influential in breeding design for fatty acid composition in Hanwoo.

22245182	Associations between two novel rSNPs in 5'-flanking region of the bovine casein gene cluster and milk performance traits. Ten evolutionary conservative sequences with high identity level to homological sequences in other mammal species were revealed in 5'-flanking region of casein's genes cluster. Five novel SNPs located inside of the evolutionary conservative regions were identified. The binding sites were revealed to be present in one allelic variant of four detected SNPs. So these SNPs were considered as rSNPs. Significant differences of allelic frequencies were revealed between beef cow's group and dairy cow's group in two rSNPs (NCE4, NCE7, p<0.001). Different alleles of those two rSNPs were shown to be associated with some milk performance traits  in Black-and-White Holstein dairy cows. Significant difference of protein percentage has been found between cows with G/G and A/A genotypes (P<0.05) and A/G and A/A genotypes (P<0.05) for NCE4 polymorphism. The groups of animals with  genotypes G/G and A/G for NCE7 polymorphism were significantly different in milk  yield at the first lactation (kg) (P<0.01), milk fat yield (kg) (P<0.05) and milk protein yield (kg) (P<0.01). For the last trait the difference was significant also between cows with genotypes G/G and A/A for rSNP NCE7 (P<0.05).

22250735	Association of toll-like receptor 2 polymorphisms with somatic cell score in Xinjiang Brown cattle. This study aims to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes in the TLR2 gene, and analyze the association of SNPs or haplotypes and somatic cell scores in 151 Xinjiang Brown cattle and 138 Holsteins to evaluate the role of TLR2 during intramammary infections. TLR2 coding region was amplified by PCR and screened for SNP sequencing. Genotypes and frequencies of SNPs were identified. Finally, the associations of genotypes or haplotypes and somatic cell scores (SCS) were analyzed. The results showed that: (i) 15 SNPs (E+653, E+945, E+978, E+1010, E+1250, E+1688, E+1707, E+1779, E+1782, E+1891, E+1995, E+2025, E+2055, E+2214 and E+2295) were observed and detected from 289 cows; (ii) distribution of the 14 SNPs were significantly different from Xinjiang Brown cattle and Holstein (P<0.001) except for the E+945 (P>0.05); (iii) in 11 SNPs (E+945, E+978, E+1010, E+1688, E+1707, E+1779, E+1782, E+1995, E+2025, E+2055 and E+2214), the SCS of AB genotype was lower than AA (P<0.05) in Xinjiang Brown cattle; and (iv) haplotypes composed of the above-mentioned 11 SNPs were constructed. The SCS of cattle with Hap5 was lower than that of Hap3 (P<0.05). This suggests that Hap5 might play an important role in sub-mastitis resistance in Xinjiang Brown cattle.

22281351	Validation of single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with milk production traits in dairy cattle. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associations with milk production traits found to be significant in different screening experiments, including SNP in genes hypothesized to be in gene pathways affecting milk production, were tested  in a validation population to confirm their association. In total, 423 SNP were genotyped across 411 Holstein bulls, and their association with 6 milk production traits--Australian Selection Index (indicating the profitability of an animal's milk production), protein, fat, and milk yields, and protein and fat composition--were tested using single SNP regressions. Seventy-two SNP were significantly associated with one or more of the traits; their effects were in the same direction as in the screening experiment and therefore their association was considered validated. An over-representation of SNP (43 of the 423) on chromosome 20 was observed, including a SNP in the growth hormone receptor gene previously published as having an association with protein composition and protein and milk yields. The association with protein composition was confirmed in this experiment, but not the association with protein and milk yields. A multiple SNP regression analysis for all SNP on chromosome 20 was performed for all 6 traits, which revealed that this mutation was not significantly associated  with any of the milk production traits and that at least 2 other quantitative trait loci were present on chromosome 20.

22281354	Genomic associations with somatic cell score in first-lactation Holstein cows. This genome-wide association study aimed to identify loci associated with lactation-average somatic cell score (LASCS) and the standard deviation of test-day somatic cell score (SCS-SD). It is one of the first studies to combine detailed phenotypic and genotypic cow data from research dairy herds located in different countries. The combined data set contained up to 52 individual test-days per lactation and thereby aimed to capture temporary increases in somatic cell score associated with infection. Phenotypic data for analysis consisted of 46,882 test-day records on 1,484 cows, and genotypic data consisted  of 37,590 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP). Using an animal model, the associations between each individual SNP and the phenotypic data were estimated.  To account for the risk of false positives, a false discovery rate threshold of 0.20 was set. The analyses showed that LASCS was significantly associated with a  SNP on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 4 and a SNP on BTA18. Likewise, SCS-SD was associated with this SNP on BTA18. In addition, SCS-SD significantly associated with a SNP on BTA6. Relatively few associations were found, suggesting that LASCS and SCS-SD are controlled by multiple loci distributed across the genome, each with a relatively small effect. Increased knowledge on genetic regulation of LASCS and SCS-SD may aid in identification of genes that play a role in mastitis  resistance. Such knowledge helps us understand the genetic mechanisms leading to  mastitis and in discovery of targets for mastitis therapeutics.

22303302	Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in the Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) Gene  are Associated with Performance in Holstein-Friesian Dairy Cattle. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been shown to be associated with fertility, growth, and development in cattle. The aim of this study was to (1) identify novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bovine IGF-1 gene and alongside previously identified SNPs (2) determine their association with traits of economic importance in Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle. Nine novel SNPs  were identified across a panel of 22 beef and dairy cattle by sequence analysis of the 5' promoter, intronic, and 3' regulatory regions, encompassing ~5kb of IGF-1. Genotyping and associations with daughter performance for milk production, fertility, survival, and measures of body size were undertaken on 848 Holstein-Friesian AI sires. Using multiple regression analysis nominal associations (P<0.05) were identified between six SNPs (four novel and two previously identified) and milk composition, survival, body condition score, and  body size. The C allele of AF017143 a previously published SNP (C-512T) in the promoter region of IGF-1 predicted to introduce binding sites for transcription factors HSF1 and ZNF217 was associated (P<0.05) with increased cow carcass weight (i.e., an indicator of mature cow size). Novel SNPs were identified in the 3' region of IGF-1 were associated (P<0.05) with functional survival and chest  width. The remaining four SNPs, all located within introns of IGF-1 were associated (P<0.05) with milk protein yield, milk fat yield, milk fat concentration, somatic cell score, carcass conformation, and carcass fat. Results of this study further demonstrate the multifaceted influences of IGF-1 on milk production and growth related traits in cattle.

22303313	BDNF contributes to the genetic variance of milk fat yield in german holstein cattle. The gene encoding the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been repeatedly associated with human obesity. As such, it could also contribute to the regulation of energy partitioning and the amount of secreted milk fat during  lactation, which plays an important role in milk production in dairy cattle. Therefore, we performed an association study using estimated breeding values (EBVs) of bulls and yield deviations of German Holstein dairy cattle to test the  effect of BDNF on milk fat yield (FY). A highly significant effect (corrected p-value=3.36210(-4)) was identified for an SNP 168kb up-stream of the BDNF  transcription start. The association tests provided evidence for an additive allele effect of 5.13kg of fat per lactation on the EBV for milk FY in bulls and 6.80kg of fat of the own production performance in cows explaining 1.72 and 0.60% of the phenotypic variance in the analyzed populations, respectively. The analyses of bulls and cows consistently showed three haplotype groups that differed significantly from each other, suggesting at least two different mutations in the BDNF region affecting the milk FY. The FY increasing alleles also had low but significant positive effects on protein and total milk yield which suggests a general role of the BDNF region in energy partitioning, rather than a specific regulation of fat synthesis. The results obtained in dairy cattle suggest similar effects of BDNF on milk composition in other species, including man.

22303340	Genome Scan for Parent-of-Origin QTL Effects on Bovine Growth and Carcass Traits. Parent-of-origin effects (POE) such as genomic imprinting influence growth and body composition in livestock, rodents, and humans. Here, we report the results of a genome scan to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) with POE on growth and carcass traits in AngusBrahman cattle crossbreds. We identified 24 POE-QTL on  15 Bos taurus autosomes (BTAs) of which six were significant at 5% genome-wide (GW) level and 18 at the 5% chromosome-wide (CW) significance level. Six QTL were paternally expressed while 15 were maternally expressed. Three QTL influencing post-weaning growth map to the proximal end of BTA2 (linkage region of 0-9cM; genomic region of 5.0-10.8Mb), for which only one imprinted ortholog is known so far in the human and mouse genomes, and therefore may potentially represent a novel imprinted region. The detected QTL individually explained 1.45.1% of each trait's phenotypic variance. Comparative in silico analysis of bovine genomic locations show that 32 out of 1,442 known mammalian imprinted genes from  human and mouse homologs map to the identified QTL regions. Although several of the 32 genes have been associated with quantitative traits in cattle, only two (GNAS and PEG3) have experimental proof of being imprinted in cattle. These results lend additional support to recent reports that POE on quantitative traits in mammals may be more common than previously thought, and strengthen the need to identify and experimentally validate cattle orthologs of imprinted genes so as to investigate their effects on quantitative traits.

22314416	The RIPK2 gene: a positional candidate for tick burden supported by genetic associations in cattle and immunological response of knockout mouse. Ticks and tick-borne diseases have a detrimental impact on livestock production causing estimated losses of around $200 million per year in Australia alone. Host resistance to ticks is heritable, within-breed heritability estimates being around 0.35, and with large differences between breeds. Previously a QTL for tick burden was detected on BTA14 at ~72 Mb distal to the centromere, near the gene receptor-interacting serine-threonine kinase 2 (RIPK2). To identify polymorphisms in this region, we sequenced all exons of the RIPK2 gene, identifying 46 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Using SNP from RIPK2 as well as SNP from the bovine genome sequence, we genotyped two samples, one of 1,122 taurine dairy cattle and one of 761 zebu and zebu composite beef cattle. We confirmed that SNP  and haplotypes from this region, including from RIPK2, were associated with tick  burden in both dairy and beef cattle. To determine whether RIPK2 influences response to tick salivary gland extract (SGE), an immunisation experiment with tick SGE in a RIPK2 knockout (RIPK2 /) mouse strain was conducted. There was a  significant (P < 0.05) reduction in IgG production in the RIPK2 / mouse in response to the SGE compared to its background strain C57BL/ 6 as well as the outbred CD1 mouse strain. In addition, antibodies generated by RIPK2 / mice recognised a different set of antigens within SGE when compared to parental-derived antibodies. In summary, the SNP association with tick burden at  BTA14 was confirmed and quantitative and qualitative differences in antibody production were observed between RIPK2 / and wild-type mice.

22336349	The association of bovine T1R family of receptors polymorphisms with cattle growth traits. The three members of the T1R class of taste-specific G protein-coupled receptors  have been proven to function in combination with heterodimeric sweet and umami taste receptors in many mammals that affect food intake. This may in turn affect  growth traits of livestock. We performed a comprehensive evaluation of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bovine TAS1R gene family, which encodes receptors for umami and sweet tastes. Complete DNA sequences of TAS1R1-,  TAS1R2-, and TAS1R3-coding regions, obtained from 436 unrelated female cattle, representing three breeds (Qinchuan, Jiaxian Red, Luxi), revealed substantial coding and noncoding diversity. A total of nine SNPs in the TAS1R1 gene were identified, among which seven SNPs were in the coding region, and two SNPs were in the introns. All five SNPs in the TAS1R2 gene and all three SNPs in the TAS1R3 gene were identified in the coding region. Four SNPs (TAS1R1 g.5081C>T, TAS1R1 g.5110C>A, TAS1R2 g.288A>G, TAS1R2 g.2552T>C) were significantly associated with  body height of Qinchuan cattle (P<0.05). The heterozygous genotypes of the four SNPs showed a molecular heterosis on cattle heights at hip cross and sacra. The individuals with different genotypic combinations of the four SNPs had significant association with heights at hip cross and sacra (P<0.05).

22355315	A genome wide association scan of bovine tuberculosis susceptibility in Holstein-Friesian dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: Bovine tuberculosis is a significant veterinary and financial problem in many parts of the world. Although many factors influence infection and progression of the disease, there is a host genetic component and dissection of this may enlighten on the wider biology of host response to tuberculosis. However, a binary phenotype of presence/absence of infection presents a noisy signal for genomewide association study. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We calculated a composite phenotype of genetic merit for TB susceptibility based on disease incidence in daughters of elite sires used for artificial insemination in the Irish dairy herd. This robust measure was compared with 44,426 SNP genotypes in the most informative 307 subjects in a genome wide association analysis. Three SNPs in a 65 kb genomic region on BTA 22 were associated (i.e. p<10(-5), peaking at position 59588069, p=4.0210(-6)) with tuberculosis susceptibility. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: A genomic region on BTA 22 was suggestively associated  with tuberculosis susceptibility; it contains the taurine transporter gene SLC6A6, or TauT, which is known to function in the immune system but has not previously been investigated for its role in tuberculosis infection.

22365237	Short communication: Association of an OLR1 polymorphism with milk production traits in the Israeli Holstein population. Previous studies have reported significant associations between haplotypes of the oxidized low-density lipoprotein (lectin-like) receptor 1 (OLR1) gene and a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in its 3'-untranslated region with milk composition and health traits in different cattle populations. However, to provide a better estimation of the impact and size of the association of OLR1 with production traits, a need exists to validate its genomic association in additional cattle populations. Thus, the objective of this study was to perform association analysis of the OLR1 SNP with milk traits in the Israeli Holstein population. Estimated breeding values of milk composition traits and somatic cell score were obtained for a total of 1,211 Holstein cows, which were genotyped for  a SNP in the 3'-untranslated region. Statistical analysis revealed significant association between the OLR1 SNP and protein percentage and somatic cell score. Thus, the validation of association of this SNP with milk traits in independent cattle populations suggests OLR1 as a candidate gene for further functional studies.

22394233	Whole-genome QTL scan for ultrasound and carcass merit traits in beef cattle using Bayesian shrinkage method. Fine mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for 16 ultrasound measurements and  carcass merit traits that were collected from 418 hybrid steers was conducted using 1207 SNP markers covering the entire genome. These SNP markers were evaluated using a Bayesian shrinkage estimation method and the empirical critical significant thresholds ( = 0.05 and  = 0.01) were determined by permutation based on 3500 permuted datasets for each trait to control the genome-wide type I  error rates. The analyses identified a total of 105 QTLs (p < 0.05) for seven ultrasound measure traits including ultrasound backfat, ultrasound marbling and ultrasound ribeye area and 113 QTLs for seven carcass merit traits of carcass weight, grade fat, average backfat, ribeye area, lean meat yield, marbling and yield grade. Proportion of phenotypic variance accounted for by a single QTL ranged from 0.06% for mean ultrasound backfat to 4.83% for carcass marbling (CMAR) score, while proportion of the phenotypic variance accounted for by all significant (p < 0.05) QTL identified for a single trait ranged from 4.54% for carcass weight to 23.87% for CMAR.

22404347	Genetic polymorphisms in bovine transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and solute carrier  family 40 (iron-regulated transporter), member 1 (SLC40A1) genes and their association with beef iron content. Beef is considered to be an excellent source of dietary iron. However, little is  known about the genetic control of beef iron content. We hypothesized that genetic polymorphisms in transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and solute carrier family  40 (iron-regulated transporter), member 1 (SLC40A1) could influence skeletal muscle iron content. The objective of this study was to use Angus cattle to identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the exons and flanking regions of the bovine TFR2 and SLC40A1 genes and to evaluate the extent to which genetic  variation in them was associated with bovine longissimus dorsi muscle iron content. Ten novel SNPs were identified in TFR2, of which one SNP tended to be associated (P<0.013) with skeletal muscle iron content. Nine novel SNPs in SLC40A1, NC007300: rs133108154, rs137140497, rs135205621, rs136600836, rs134388440, rs136347850, rs134186279, rs134621419 and rs137555693, were identified, of which SNPs rs134388440, rs136347850 and rs137555693 were significantly associated (P<0.007) with skeletal muscle iron content. High linkage disequilibrium was observed among SLC40A1 SNPs rs134388440, rs136347850 and rs137555693 (R(2) >0.99), from which two haplotypes, TGC and CAT, were defined. Beef from individuals that were homozygous for the TGC haplotype had significantly (P<0.001) higher iron content than did beef from CAT homozygous or heterozygous individuals. The estimated size of effect of the identified haplotypes was 0.3% of the phenotypic variance. In conclusion, our study provides evidence for genetic control of beef iron concentration. Moreover, SNPs identified in SLC40A1, rs134388440, rs136347850 and rs137555693 might be useful markers for the selection of Angus cattle for altered iron content.

22404348	Association studies in QTL regions linked to bovine trypanotolerance in a West African crossbred population. African animal trypanosomosis is a parasitic blood disease transmitted by tsetse  flies and is widespread in sub-Saharan Africa. West African taurine breeds have the ability, known as trypanotolerance, to limit parasitaemia and anaemia and remain productive in enzootic areas. Several quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying traits related to trypanotolerance have been identified in an experimentally infected F(2) population resulting from a cross between taurine and zebu cattle. Although this information is highly valuable, the QTL remain to  be confirmed in populations subjected to natural conditions of infection, and the corresponding regions need to be refined. In our study, 360 West African cattle were phenotyped for the packed cell volume control under natural conditions of infection in south-western Burkina Faso. Phenotypes were assessed by analysing data from previous cattle monitored over 2 years in an area enzootic for trypanosomosis. We further genotyped for 64 microsatellite markers mapping within four previously reported QTL on BTA02, BTA04, BTA07 and BTA13. These data enabled us to estimate the heritability of the phenotype using the kinship matrix between individuals computed from genotyping data. Thus, depending on the estimators considered and the method used, the heritability of anaemia control ranged from 0.09 to 0.22. Finally, an analysis of association identified an allele of the MNB42 marker on BTA04 as being strongly associated with anaemia control, and a candidate gene, INHBA, as being close to that marker.

22438944	Quantitative trait loci associated with the immune response to a bovine respiratory syncytial virus vaccine. Infectious disease is an important problem for animal breeders, farmers and governments worldwide. One approach to reducing disease is to breed for resistance. This linkage study used a Charolais-Holstein F2 cattle cross population (n = 501) which was genotyped for 165 microsatellite markers (covering all autosomes) to search for associations with phenotypes for Bovine Respiratory  Syncytial Virus (BRSV) specific total-IgG, IgG1 and IgG2 concentrations at several time-points pre- and post-BRSV vaccination. Regions of the bovine genome  which influenced the immune response induced by BRSV vaccination were identified, as well as regions associated with the clearance of maternally derived BRSV specific antibodies. Significant positive correlations were detected within traits across time, with negative correlations between the pre- and post-vaccination time points. The whole genome scan identified 27 Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) on 13 autosomes. Many QTL were associated with the Thymus Helper 1 linked IgG2 response, especially at week 2 following vaccination. However the most significant QTL, which reached 5% genome-wide significance, was on BTA 17 for IgG1, also 2 weeks following vaccination. All animals had declining maternally derived BRSV specific antibodies prior to vaccination and the levels of BRSV specific antibody prior to vaccination were found to be under polygenic control with several QTL detected.Heifers from the same population (n = 195) were subsequently immunised with a 40-mer Foot-and-Mouth Disease Virus peptide (FMDV)  in a previous publication. Several of these QTL associated with the FMDV traits had overlapping peak positions with QTL in the current study, including the QTL on BTA23 which included the bovine Major Histocompatibility Complex (BoLA), and QTL on BTA9 and BTA24, suggesting that the genes underlying these QTL may control responses to multiple antigens. These results lay the groundwork for future investigations to identify the genes underlying the variation in clearance of maternal antibody and response to vaccination.

22440763	A chromosome-wide QTL study on BTA29 affecting temperament traits in German Angus beef cattle and mapping of DRD4. The behaviour of beef cattle is important for the safety and welfare of stockmen  and animals. Ten microsatellites spanning BTA29 and, in addition, the candidate gene, dopamine receptor D4 gene, were analysed in 545 German Angus calves of six  sires and included in a quantitative trait locus (QTL) study on the basis of three different behaviour tests. A putative QTL for the score while entering the  scale (ScE) was detected at BMS764. The DRD4 fragment was mapped in the distal region of BTA29 15.3 cM distal of ILSTS081. The results clearly indicate that BTA29 with a putative QTL in the proximal part and the candidate gene, DRD4, in the distal part plays an important role in the regulation of temperament. During  the study one of the sires was detected to be a blood chimera.

22449276	Genome-wide associations for milk production and somatic cell score in Holstein-Friesian cattle in Ireland. BACKGROUND: Contemporary dairy breeding goals have broadened to include, along with milk production traits, a number of non-production-related traits in an effort to improve the overall functionality of the dairy cow. Increased indirect  selection for resistance to mastitis, one of the most important production-related diseases in the dairy sector, via selection for reduced somatic cell count has been part of these broadened goals. A number of genome-wide association studies have identified genetic variants associated with  milk production traits and mastitis resistance, however the majority of these studies have been based on animals which were predominantly kept in confinement and fed a concentrate-based diet (i.e. high-input production systems). This genome-wide association study aims to detect associations using genotypic and phenotypic data from Irish Holstein-Friesian cattle fed predominantly grazed grass in a pasture-based production system (low-input). RESULTS: Significant associations were detected for milk yield, fat yield, protein yield, fat percentage, protein percentage and somatic cell score using separate single-locus, frequentist and multi-locus, Bayesian approaches. These associations were detected using two separate populations of Holstein-Friesian sires and cows. In total, 1,529 and 37 associations were detected in the sires using a single SNP regression and a Bayesian method, respectively. There were 103 associations in common between the sires and cows across all the traits. As well  as detecting associations within known QTL regions, a number of novel associations were detected; the most notable of these was a region of chromosome  13 associated with milk yield in the population of Holstein-Friesian sires. CONCLUSIONS: A total of 276 of novel SNPs were detected in the sires using a single SNP regression approach. Although obvious candidate genes may not be initially forthcoming, this study provides a preliminary framework upon which to  identify the causal mechanisms underlying the various milk production traits and  somatic cell score. Consequently this will deepen our understanding of how these  traits are expressed.

22451137	Major effect of retinal short-chain dehydrogenase reductase (RDHE2) on bovine fat colour. Beef with yellow fat is considered undesirable by consumers in most European and  Asian markets. -Carotene is the major carotenoid deposited in the adipose tissue and milk fat of cattle (Bos taurus), which can result in the yellowness. The effects of retinal short-chain dehydrogenase reductase (RDHE2) and , -carotene  9',10-dioxygenase (BCO2) were considered jointly as major candidate genes for causing the yellow fat colour, based on their genomic locations in the fat colour quantitative trait loci (QTL) and their roles in the metabolism of -carotene. In a secondary pathway, BCO2 cleaves -carotene into retinoic acid, the most potent  form of vitamin A. RDHE2 converts trans-retinol to trans-retinal, a less active form of vitamin A. We evaluated the effects of two amino acid variants of the RDHE2 gene (V6A and V33A) along with a mutation in the BCO2 gene that results in  a stop codon (W80X) in seven cattle populations. The RDHE2 V6A genotype affected  several fat colour traits but the size of the effect varied in the populations studied. The genotype effect of the RDHE2 V33A variant was observed only in New Zealand samples of unknown breed. In general, the individual effects of RDHE2 V6A and V33A SNPs genotypes were greater in the random New Zealand samples than in samples from pedigreed Jersey-Limousin backcross progeny, accounting for 8-17 % of the variance in one population. Epistasis between the BCO2 W80X and RDHE2 variants was observed, and in some populations this explained more of the variation than the effects of the individual RDHE2 variants.

22479267	Evaluation of Bovine chemerin (RARRES2) Gene Variation on Beef Cattle Production  Traits. A previous study in cattle based on >48,000 markers identified markers on chromosome 4 near the chemerin gene associated with average daily feed intake (ADFI) in steers (P<0.008). Chemerin is an adipokine associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome in humans, representing a strong candidate gene potentially underlying the observed association. To evaluate whether the bovine chemerin gene is involved in feed intake, 16 markers within and around the gene were tested for association in the same resource population. Eleven were nominally significant for ADFI (P<0.05) and two were significant after Bonferroni correction. Two and five SNP in this region were nominally significant for the related traits of average daily gain (ADG) and residual feed intake (RFI), respectively. All markers were evaluated for effects on meat quality and carcass phenotypes. Many of the markers associated with ADFI were associated with hot carcass weight (HCW), adjusted fat thickness (AFT), and marbling (P<0.05).  Marker alleles that were associated with lower ADFI were also associated with lower HCW, AFT, and marbling. Markers associated with ADFI were genotyped in a validation population of steers representing 14 breeds to determine predictive merit across populations. No consistent relationships for ADFI were detected. To  determine whether cattle feed intake or growth phenotypes might be related to chemerin transcript abundance, the expression of chemerin was evaluated in adipose of 114 heifers that were siblings of the steers in the discovery population. Relative chemerin transcript abundance was not correlated with ADFI,  ADG, or RFI, but associations with body condition score and yearling weight were  observed. We conclude that variation in the chemerin gene may underlie observed association in the resource population, but that additional research is required  to determine if this variation is widespread among breeds and to develop robust markers with predictive merit across breeds.

22480211	Association between GNRHR, LHR and IGF1 polymorphisms and timing of puberty in male Angus cattle. BACKGROUND: In bovines, there are significant differences within and among beef breeds in the time when bulls reach puberty. Although the timing of puberty is likely to be a multigenic trait, previous studies indicate that there may also be single genes that exert major effects on the timing of puberty within the general population. Despite its economic importance, there are not many SNPs or genetic markers associated with the age of puberty in male cattle. In the present work, we selected three candidate genes, GNRHR, LHR and IGF1, and associated their polymorphisms with the age of puberty in Angus male cattle. RESULTS: After weaning, 276 Angus males were measured every month for weight (W), scrotal circumference (SC), sperm concentration (C) and percentage of motility (M). A total of 4 SNPs, two within GNRHR, one in LHR and one in IGF1 were genotyped using the pyrosequencing technique. IGF1-SnaBI SNP was significant associated (P < 0.01) with age at SC 28 cm, but it were not associated with age at M 10% and C 50 million. Genotype CC exhibited an average age at SC 28 cm of 7  and 11 days higher than CT (p = 0.037) and TT (p = 0.012), respectively. This SNP explained 1.5% of the genetic variance of age of puberty at SC28. LHR-I499L, GNRHR-SNP5 and GNRHR-SNP6 were not associated with any of the measurements. However, GNRHR haplotypes showed a suggestive association with age at SC 28 cm. CONCLUSIONS: The findings presented here could support the hypothesis that IGF1 is a regulator of the arrival to puberty in male calves and is involved in the events that precede and initiate puberty in bull calves. Given that most studies  in cattle, as well as in other mammals, were done in female, the present results  are the first evidence of markers associated with age at puberty in male cattle.

22486495	Haplotype variability in the bovine MITF gene and association with piebaldism in  Holstein and Simmental cattle breeds. Candidate gene analysis, quantitative trait locus mapping in outbreed and experimental cross-populations and a genomewide association study in Holstein have reported that a few chromosome regions contribute to great variability in the degree of white/black spotting in cattle. In particular, an important region  affecting this trait was localized on bovine chromosome 22 in the region containing the microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) gene. We sequenced a total of 7258 bp of the MITF gene in 40 cattle of different breeds, including 20 animals from spotted breeds (10 Italian Holstein and 10 Italian Simmental) and 20 animals from solid coloured breeds (10 Italian Brown and 10 Reggiana), and identified 17 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The allele frequencies of one polymorphism (g.32386957A>T) were clearly different between spotted (A = 0.875; T = 0.125) and non-spotted breeds (A = 0.125; T = 0.875) (P = 8.2E-12). This result was confirmed by genotyping additional animals of these four breeds (P < 1.0E-20). A total of 21 different haplotypes were inferred from  the sequenced animals. Considering similarities among haplotypes, spotted and non-spotted groups of cattle showed significant differences in their haplotype distribution (P = 0.001), which was further supported by the analysis of molecular variance (amova) of two genotyped SNPs in an enlarged sample of cattle. Variability in the MITF gene clearly explained the differences between spotted and non-spotted phenotypes but, at the same time, it is evident that this gene is not the only genetic factor determining piebaldism in Italian Holstein and Italian Simmental cattle breeds.

22486504	Revisiting the quantitative trait loci for milk production traits on BTA6. A parallel association study was performed in two independent cattle populations  based on 41 validated, targeted single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and four microsatellite markers to re-evaluate the multiple quantitative trait loci (QTL)  architecture for milk performance on bovine chromosome 6 (BTA6). Two distinct QTL located in the vicinity of the middle region of BTA6, but differing unambiguously regarding their effects on milk composition and yield traits were validated in the German Holstein population. A highly significant association of the protein variant ABCG2 p.Tyr581Ser with milk composition traits reconfirmed the causative  molecular relevance of the ABCG2 gene in QTL region 1, whereas in QTL region 2, significant and tentative associations between gene variants RW070 and RW023 (located in the promoter region and exon 9 of the PPARGC1A gene for milk yield traits) were detected. For the German Fleckvieh population, only RW023 showed a tentative association with milk yield traits, whereas those loci with significant effects in German Holsteins (ABCG2 p.Tyr581Ser, RW070) showed fixed alleles. Even though our new data highlight two variants in the PPARGC1A gene (RW023, RW070) in QTL region 2, based on the results of our study, currently no unequivocal conclusion about the causal background of this QTL affecting milk yield traits can be drawn. Notably, the German Holstein and Fleckvieh populations, known for their divergent degree of dairy type, differ substantially in their allele frequencies for the growth-associated NCAPG p.Ile442Met locus.

22497203	Association of leptin genotypes with beef cattle characteristics. A single nucleotide polymorphism (C/T) in bovine leptin, resulting in an arginine to cysteine amino acid substitution (p.Arg25Cys), has previously been shown to have an impact on carcass characteristics. Given the significant energetic relationship between fat and animal efficiency, further evaluation of this SNP across larger animal populations is warranted. Of the total number of 136 286 genotyped cattle in this study, 92 112 and 53 189 were analysed for backfat and body weight measurements, respectively. Results showed a significant positive relationship (P < 0.0001) between the T allele frequency and animal backfat, with TT, CT and CC animals having estimates of 6.79  0.02, 6.49  0.01 and 6.28  0.01 mm, respectively. Calculations using rate of backfat accretion showed that animals with CC genotypes would require more days to reach 12 mm of backfat (45 days) than animals with CT (42 days) and TT (38 days) genotypes. Animal weight was also shown to be positively associated (P < 0.0001) with genotype, as animals of the TT, CT and CC genotypes weighed 484.2  0.7, 488.0  0.5 and 487.3  0.6 kg, respectively, further underscoring the effects of this SNP on key market cattle characteristics.

22497247	Whole-genome analysis for backfat thickness in a tropically adapted, composite cattle breed from Brazil. Backfat thickness affects the preservation of the beef carcass after slaughter and confers organoleptic characteristics assessed by the consumer. One of the breeding goals for Canchim, a tropically adapted breed, is to comprehensively increase fat thickness. Our goals were to identify genomic regions associated with backfat in Canchim populations and validate the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) overlapping previously identified QTL regions known to affect fat deposition. Fifteen animals with lower and 15 animals with higher residues for backfat, according to a linear model using the SAS GLM procedure, were selected from a population of 1171 animals and genotyped using the BovineSNP50 BeadChip. Initial analysis revealed more than 100 SNPs that discriminated the tails of phenotypic distribution. One extended region of association included the centromeric region of chromosome (Chr) 14. Because this  region overlapped with QTL from previous reports, we developed SNP assays to interrogate two linkage disequilibrium blocks, one in the centromeric region and  another in the middle region of Chr 14 to confirm the association. The analysis validated the presence of specific haplotypes affecting fat thickness.

22497262	Investigation of the genetic architecture of a bone carcass weight QTL on BTA6. A previous analysis of an F(2) /Backcross CharolaisHolstein cross population identified the presence of a highly significant QTL on chromosome 6 (BTA6) affecting the proportion of bone in the carcass. Two closely linked QTL affected  birth weight (BW) and body length at birth (BBL). In this report, the marker density around the QTL on BTA6 was increased, adding four additional microsatellite markers across the chromosome and 46 SNPs within the target QTL confidence interval. Of the SNPs, 26 were in positional candidate genes and the remaining 20 provided an even distribution of markers in the target QTL region. As a bone-related trait, the sum of the bone weight for all the left fore- and hindquarter joints of the carcass was analysed. We also studied the BW and BBL. Analyses of the data substantially reduced the QTL confidence interval. No strong evidence was found that the QTL for the three traits studied are different, and we conclude that the results are consistent with a single pleiotropic QTL influencing the three traits, with the largest effects on the proportion of bone  in the carcass. The analyses also suggest that none of the SNPs tested is the sole causative variant of the QTL effects. Specifically, the SNP in the NCAPG gene previously reported as a causal mutation for foetal growth and carcass traits in other cattle populations was excluded as the causal mutation for the QTL reported here. Polymorphisms located in other previously identified candidate genes including SPP1, ABCG2, IBSP, MEPE and PPARGC1A were also excluded. The results suggest that SNP51_BTA-119876 is the polymorphism in strongest linkage disequilibrium with the causal mutation(s). Further research is required to identify the causal variant(s) associated with this bone-related QTL.

22497268	Genetic variants affecting meat and milk production traits appear to have effects on reproduction traits in cattle. Polymorphisms located in the genes ABCG2, DGAT1, LEP, PRLR, RORC, CAPN1 and CAST  previously have been associated with milk or meat production traits. In this study, these polymorphisms were examined for significant effects on reproductive  traits [age at puberty (AGECL), post-partum anoestrus interval (PPAI) and the ability ovulate prior to weaning (PW)] and on a panel of correlated traits such as weight, growth and serum concentration of insulin-like growth factor I. The effects of the polymorphisms were examined in two samples of tropically adapted beef cattle: Brahman (N = 932) and Tropical Composites (N = 1097). A polymorphism in the gene DGAT1 was associated with age at puberty in the combined sample (P =  0.042), and two polymorphisms in CAPN1 were associated with PPAI (P = 0.033) and  with the ability ovulate PW (P = 0.017). The favourable allele for reproductive traits was not always the favourable allele associated with production traits. The effects of these polymorphisms on reproductive traits were small compared to  their effects on the traits for which they were originally discovered.

22497286	Genome-wide association analysis for quantitative trait loci influencing Warner-Bratzler shear force in five taurine cattle breeds. We performed a genome-wide association study for Warner-Bratzler shear force (WBSF), a measure of meat tenderness, by genotyping 3360 animals from five breeds with 54790 BovineSNP50 and 96 putative single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within -calpain [HUGO nomenclature calpain 1, (mu/I) large subunit; CAPN1] and calpastatin (CAST). Within- and across-breed analyses estimated SNP allele substitution effects (ASEs) by genomic best linear unbiased prediction (GBLUP) and variance components by restricted maximum likelihood under an animal model incorporating a genomic relationship matrix. GBLUP estimates of ASEs from the across-breed analysis were moderately correlated (0.31-0.66) with those from the  individual within-breed analyses, indicating that prediction equations for molecular estimates of breeding value developed from across-breed analyses should be effective for genomic selection within breeds. We identified 79 genomic regions associated with WBSF in at least three breeds, but only eight were detected in all five breeds, suggesting that the within-breed analyses were underpowered, that different quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlie variation between breeds or that the BovineSNP50 SNP density is insufficient to detect common QTL among breeds. In the across-breed analysis, CAPN1 was followed by CAST as the most strongly associated WBSF QTL genome-wide, and associations with both  were detected in all five breeds. We show that none of the four commercialized CAST and CAPN1 SNP diagnostics are causal for associations with WBSF, and we putatively fine-map the CAPN1 causal mutation to a 4581-bp region. We estimate that variation in CAST and CAPN1 explains 1.02 and 1.85% of the phenotypic variation in WBSF respectively.

22497295	Genome-wide association analysis for feed efficiency in Angus cattle. Estimated breeding values for average daily feed intake (AFI; kg/day), residual feed intake (RFI; kg/day) and average daily gain (ADG; kg/day) were generated using a mixed linear model incorporating genomic relationships for 698 Angus steers genotyped with the Illumina BovineSNP50 assay. Association analyses of estimated breeding values (EBVs) were performed for 41,028 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and permutation analysis was used to empirically establish  the genome-wide significance threshold (P < 0.05) for each trait. SNPs significantly associated with each trait were used in a forward selection algorithm to identify genomic regions putatively harbouring genes with effects on each trait. A total of 53, 66 and 68 SNPs explained 54.12% (24.10%), 62.69% (29.85%) and 55.13% (26.54%) of the additive genetic variation (when accounting for the genomic relationships) in steer breeding values for AFI, RFI and ADG, respectively, within this population. Evaluation by pathway analysis revealed that many of these SNPs are in genomic regions that harbour genes with metabolic  functions. The presence of genetic correlations between traits resulted in 13.2%  of SNPs selected for AFI and 4.5% of SNPs selected for RFI also being selected for ADG in the analysis of breeding values. While our study identifies panels of  SNPs significant for efficiency traits in our population, validation of all SNPs  in independent populations will be necessary before commercialization.

22497297	Genome-wide association study uncovers four QTL predisposing to supernumerary teats in cattle. Supernumerary teats (hyperthelia, SNTs) are a common abnormality of the bovine udder with a medium to high heritability and a postulated oligogenic or polygenic inheritance pattern. SNTs not only negatively affect machine milking ability but  also act as a reservoir for bacteria. A genome-wide association study was carried out to identify genes involved in the development of SNTs in the dual-purpose Fleckvieh breed. A total of 2467 progeny-tested bulls were genotyped at 43 698 single nucleotide polymorphisms, and daughter yield deviations (DYDs) for 'udder  clearness' (UC) were used as high-heritability phenotypes. Massive structuring of the study population was accounted for by principal components analysis-based and mixed model-based approaches. Four loci on BTA5, BTA6, BTA11 and BTA17 were significantly associated with the UC DYD. Three associated regions contain genes  of the highly conserved Wnt signalling pathway. The four QTL together account for 10.7% of the variance of the UC DYD, whereas the major fraction of the DYD variance is attributable to chromosomes with no identified QTL. Our results support both an oligogenic and a polygenic inheritance pattern of SNTs in cattle. The identified candidate genes permit insights into the genetic architecture of teat malformations in cattle and provide clues to unravel the molecular mechanisms of mammary gland alterations in cattle and other species.

22497335	Genetic markers on BTA14 predictive for residual feed intake in beef steers and their effects on carcass and meat quality traits. With the high cost of feed for animal production, genetic selection for animals that metabolize feed more efficiently could result in substantial cost savings for cattle producers. The purpose of this study was to identify DNA markers predictive for differences among cattle for traits associated with feed efficiency. Crossbred steers were fed a high-corn diet for 140 days and average daily feed intake (ADFI), average daily gain (ADG), and residual feed intake (RFI) phenotypes were obtained. A region on chromosome 14 was previously associated with RFI in this population of animals. To develop markers with the highest utility for predicting an animal's genetic potential for RFI, we genotyped additional markers within this chromosomal region. These polymorphisms  were genotyped on the same animals (n = 1066) and tested for association with ADFI, ADG and RFI. Six markers within this region were associated with RFI (P  0.05). After conservative correction for multiple testing, one marker at 25.09 Mb remained significant (P = 0.02) and is responsible for 3.6% of the RFI phenotypic variation in this population of animals. Several of these markers were also significant for ADG, although none were significant after correction. Marker alleles with positive effects on ADG corresponded to lower RFI, suggesting an effect increasing growth without increasing feed intake. All markers were also assessed for their effects on meat quality and carcass traits. All of the markers associated with RFI were associated with adjusted fat thickness (AFT, P  0.009)  and three were also associated with hot carcass weight (HCW, P  0.003). Marker alleles associated with lower RFI were also associated with reduced AFT, and if they were associated for HCW, the effect was an increase in weight. These markers may be useful as prediction tools for animals that utilize feed more efficiently; however, validation with additional populations of cattle is required.

22497459	Genome-wide associations for investigating time-dependent genetic effects for milk production traits in dairy cattle. Phenotypic variation in milk production traits has been described over the course of a lactation as well as between different parities. The objective of this study was to investigate whether variation in production is affected by different loci  across lactations. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) using a 50-k SNP chip was conducted in 152 divergent German Holstein Friesian cows to test for association with milk production traits over different lactations. The first four lactations were analysed regarding milk yield, fat, protein, lactose, milk urea nitrogen yield and content as well as somatic cell score. Two approaches were used: (i) Wilmink curve parameters were used to assess the genetic effects over the course of a lactation and (ii) test-day yield deviations (YD) were used as a  normative approach for a GWAS. The significant effects were largest for markers affecting curve parameters for which there was a statistical power <0.8 of detection even in this small design. While significant markers for YDs were detected in this study, the power to detect effects of a similar magnitude was only 0.11, suggesting that many loci may have been missed with this approach in the present design. Furthermore, all significant effects were specific for a single lactation, leading to the conclusion that the variance explained by a certain locus changes from lactation to lactation. We confirm the common evidence that most production traits vary in the degree of persistency after the peak as a result of genetic influence.

22497486	Genetic variation in PLAG1 associates with early life body weight and peripubertal weight and growth in Bos taurus. Variation at the pleiomorphic adenoma gene 1 (PLAG1) locus has recently been implicated in the regulation of stature and weight in Bos taurus. Using a population of 942 outbred Holstein-Friesian dairy calves, we report confirmation  of this effect, demonstrating strong association of early life body weight with PLAG1 genotype. Peripubertal body weight and growth rate were also significantly  associated with PLAG1 genotype. Growth rate per kilogram of body weight, daily feed intake, gross feed efficiency and residual feed intake were not significantly associated with PLAG1 genotype. This study supports the status of PLAG1 as a key regulator of mammalian growth. Further, the data indicate the utility of PLAG1 polymorphisms for the selection of animals to achieve enhanced weight gain or conversely to aid the selection of animals with lower mature body  weight and thus lower maintenance energy requirements.

22497494	Variation in the XKR4 gene was significantly associated with subcutaneous rump fat thickness in indicine and composite cattle. Variation in the XK, Kell blood group complex subunit-related family, member 4 (XKR4) gene on BTA14 was associated with rump fat thickness in a recent genome-wide association study. This region is also of interest because it is known to show evidence of a signature of population genetic selection. In this study, additional variation in this gene was genotyped in a sample of a total of  1283 animals of the Belmont Red (BEL) and Santa Gertrudis (SGT) breeds. The SNP rs41724387 was significantly (P < 0.001) associated with rump fat thickness and explained 5.9% of the genetic variance for the trait in this sample. Using the 4466 genotypes for the SNP rs42646708 from several data sets to estimate effects  in seven breeds, this relatively large quantitative trait locus effect appears to be a result of the variation in indicine and taurine-indicine composite cattle. However, the only DNA variant found in Brahman cattle that altered the predicted  amino acid sequence of XKR4 was not associated with rump fat thickness. This suggests that causative mutations lie outside the coding sequence of this gene.

22497605	Whole-genome association study for energy balance and fat/protein ratio in German Holstein bull dams. The metabolic status of cows is important to health and fertility, especially in  early lactation, and energy balance (EB) and fat/protein ratio (FPR) are considered as appropriate indicators for metabolic disorders. The aim of this study was to detect SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) associated with EB and FPR in German Holstein bull dams belonging to the research herd Karkendamm. Bull  dams were genotyped using the Illumina Bovine SNP 50K Bead chip() comprising 54  001 SNPs. A total of 43 593 SNPs and 586 (EB) and 668 (FPR) bull dams passed the  quality control criteria. Phenotypes were deregressed breeding values estimated via random regression animal models for lactation days 11, 20, 30, and 42 for EB  and FPR. Whole-genome association analyses were carried out fitting principal components as covariates to adjust for genetic substructure. Permutation tests were applied to estimate genome-wise significance. Across all observed lactation  days, 19 SNPs located in four different intervals on chromosomes 1, 14, 16, and 27 were detected. For EB, seven markers across four chromosomes were identified.  There was no overlap between markers associated with FPR and EB. SNPs associated  with FPR were mostly located in QTL regions for milk production traits, especially in the region of DGAT1, whereas SNPs associated with EB mainly showed  positional relationships to previously described QTL regions affecting functional traits, especially fertility.

22531932	Association between BoLA-DRB3 and somatic cell count in Holstein cattle from Argentina. Different studies have proved that the resistance/susceptibility to mastitis is genetically determined. The major histocompatibility complex in cows is known as  bovine lymphocyte antigen (BoLA). Genes from the BoLA have been associated with the occurrence of infectious diseases such as mastitis and leukosis, especially the BoLA-DRB gene. The object of the present study was to detect associations between BoLA-DRB3 alleles and somatic cell count (SCC), as an indicator of resistance/susceptibility to mastitis in Holstein cattle (N = 123) from La Pampa, Argentina. Fisher's exact test and Woolf-Haldane odds ratio were applied to study the association between SCC and BoLA-DRB3 allele frequencies. Significant association was noted between BoLA-DRB3.2*23 and *27 alleles (p < 0.05) and protective or susceptibility effects, respectively. In addition, alleles BoLA-DRB3.2*20 and *25 exhibit suggestive association with high SCC (p < 0.1). These results were partially in agreement with data reported from Japanese Holstein cattle, but differed from those published by other authors. A possible explanation for the contrasting results could be that the mastitis is a multifactor disease caused by different pathogens. Moreover, most of the studies  were carried out using PCR-RFLP method, which has less resolution than PCR-SBT because PCR-RFLP defined alleles included more than one sequenced alleles.

22535401	Polymorphisms of the ATP1A1 gene associated with mastitis in dairy cattle. Mastitis affects the concentrations of potassium and sodium in milk. Since sodium-potassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na(+), K(+)-ATPase) is critical for maintaining the homeostasis of these two ions, and is involved in cell apoptosis  and pathogenesis, we presumed that polymorphism of the ATP1A1 gene, which encodes the bovine Na(+), K(+)-ATPase 1 subunit could be associated with mastitis. The ATP1A1 gene was analyzed in 320 Holstein cows using PCR low ionic strength single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-LIS-SSCP) and DNA sequencing methods. A C/A SNP was identified at nucleotide position -15,739 in exon 17 of the ATP1A1 gene, but it did not induce any change in amino acids. We examined a possible association of polymorphism of the ATP1A1 gene with somatic cell score and 305-day milk yields. Individuals with genotype CC in ATP1A1 had significantly lower somatic cell scores and 305-day milk yields than those with genotype CA. We also examined changes in Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity of red cell membranes. The Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity was significantly higher in dairy cows with genotype  CC compared to the other two genotypes, and the Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activity of the resistant group was significantly higher than that of the susceptible group in dairy cows. We conclude that this polymorphism has potential as a marker for mastitis resistance in dairy cattle.

22536407	Transcription factor binding site polymorphism in the motilin gene associated with left-sided displacement of the abomasum in German Holstein cattle. Left-sided displacement of the abomasum (LDA) is a common disease in many dairy cattle breeds. A genome-wide screen for QTL for LDA in German Holstein (GH) cows  indicated motilin (MLN) as a candidate gene on bovine chromosome 23. Genomic DNA  sequence analysis of MLN revealed a total of 32 polymorphisms. All informative polymorphisms used for association analyses in a random sample of 1,136 GH cows confirmed MLN as a candidate for LDA. A single nucleotide polymorphism (FN298674:g.90T>C) located within the first non-coding exon of bovine MLN affects a NKX2-5 transcription factor binding site and showed significant associations (OR(allele)=0.64; -log(10)P(allele)=6.8, -log(10)P(genotype)=7.0) with LDA. An expression study gave evidence of a significantly decreased MLN expression in  cows carrying the mutant allele (C). In individuals heterozygous or homozygous for the mutation, MLN expression was decreased by 89% relative to the wildtype. FN298674:g.90T>C may therefore play a role in bovine LDA via the motility of the  abomasum. This MLN SNP appears useful to reduce the incidence of LDA in German Holstein cattle and provides a first step towards a deeper understanding of the genetics of LDA.

22541504	Genome-wide association study to identify chromosomal regions associated with antibody response to Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis in milk of Dutch Holstein-Friesians. Heritability of susceptibility to Johne's disease in cattle has been shown to vary from 0.041 to 0.159. Although the presence of genetic variation involved in  susceptibility to Johne's disease has been demonstrated, the understanding of genes contributing to the genetic variance is far from complete. The objective of this study was to contribute to further understanding of genetic variation involved in susceptibility to Johne's disease by identifying associated chromosomal regions using a genome-wide association approach. Log-transformed ELISA test results of 265,290 individual Holstein-Friesian cows from 3,927 herds  from the Netherlands were analyzed to obtain sire estimated breeding values for Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP)-specific antibody response  in milk using a sire-maternal grandsire model with fixed effects for parity, year of birth, lactation stage, and herd; a covariate for milk yield on test day; and  random effects for sire, maternal grandsire, and error. For 192 sires with estimated breeding values with a minimum reliability of 70%, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) typing was conducted by a multiple SNP analysis with a random  polygenic effect fitting 37,869 SNP simultaneously. Five SNP associated with MAP-specific antibody response in milk were identified distributed over 4 chromosomal regions (chromosome 4, 15, 18, and 28). Thirteen putative SNP associated with MAP-specific antibody response in milk were identified distributed over 10 chromosomes (chromosome 4, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, and 29). This knowledge contributes to the current understanding of genetic variation involved in Johne's disease susceptibility and facilitates control of Johne's disease and improvement of health status by breeding.

22548449	Association of polymorphisms in calpain 1, (mu/I) large subunit, calpastatin, and cathepsin D genes with meat quality traits in double-muscled Piemontese cattle. Five single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the calpain 1, (mu/I) large subunit (CAPN1), calpastatin (CAST), and cathepsin D (CTSD) genes were analyzed in a large sample of Piemontese cattle. The aim of this study was to evaluate allele and genotype frequencies of these SNPs and to investigate associations of CAPN1, CAST, and CTSD gene variants with meat quality traits. Minor allele frequencies ranged from 30 to 48%. The presence of the A allele at CAPN530 increased yellowness and drip loss. The CAST282G allele was associated with an increased drip loss compared to the C allele, and the CAST2959 A allele decreased redness compared to the G allele.

22554198	The IGF1 pathway genes and their association with age of puberty in cattle. Insulin-like growth factor I (somatomedin C) (IGF1) influences gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons during puberty, and GnRH release guides pubertal development. Therefore, genes of the IGF1 pathway are biological  candidates for the identification of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) affecting age of puberty. In a genome-wide association study, genotyped heifers were Tropical Composite (TCOMP, n = 866) or Brahman (BRAH, n = 843), with observation of age at first corpus luteum defining puberty. We examined SNPs in or near genes of the IGF1 pathway and report seven genes associated with age at puberty in cattle: IGF1R, IGFBP2, IGFBP4, PERK (HUGO symbol EIF2AK3), PIK3R1, GSK3B and IRS1. SNPs in the IGF1 receptor (IGF1R) showed the most promising associations: two SNPs were associated with puberty in TCOMP (P < 0.05) and one in BRAH (P = 0.00009). This last SNP explained 2% of the genetic variation (R(2)  = 2.04%) for age of puberty in BRAH. Hence, IGF1R was examined further. Additional SNPs were genotyped, and haplotypes were analysed. To test more SNPs in this gene, four new SNPs from dbSNP were selected and genotyped. Single SNP and haploytpe analysis revealed associations with age of puberty in both breeds.  There were two haplotypes of 12 IGF1R SNPs associated with puberty in BRAH (P < 0.05) and one in TCOMP (P < 0.05). One haplotype of two SNPs was associated (P <  0.01) with puberty in BRAH, but not in TCOMP. In conclusion, the IGF1 pathway appeared more relevant for age of puberty in Brahman cattle, and IGF1R showed higher significance when compared with other genes from the pathway.

22567150	Identification of QTL for UV-protective eye area pigmentation in cattle by progeny phenotyping and genome-wide association analysis. Pigmentation patterns allow for the differentiation of cattle breeds. A dominantly inherited white head is characteristic for animals of the Fleckvieh (FV) breed. However, a minority of the FV animals exhibits peculiar pigmentation  surrounding the eyes (ambilateral circumocular pigmentation, ACOP). In areas where animals are exposed to increased solar ultraviolet radiation, ACOP is associated with a reduced susceptibility to bovine ocular squamous cell carcinoma (BOSCC, eye cancer). Eye cancer is the most prevalent malignant tumour affecting  cattle. Selection for animals with ACOP rapidly reduces the incidence of BOSCC. To identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying ACOP, we performed a genome-wide association study using 658,385 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The study population consisted of 3579 bulls of the FV breed with a total of 320,186 progeny with phenotypes for ACOP. The proportion of progeny with ACOP  was used as a quantitative trait with high heritability (h(2)=0.79). A variance component based approach to account for population stratification uncovered twelve QTL regions on seven chromosomes. The identified QTL point to MCM6, PAX3,  ERBB3, KITLG, LEF1, DKK2, KIT, CRIM1, ATRN, GSDMC, MITF and NBEAL2 as underlying  genes for eye area pigmentation in cattle. The twelve QTL regions explain 44.96%  of the phenotypic variance of the proportion of daughters with ACOP. The chromosomes harbouring significantly associated SNPs account for 54.13% of the phenotypic variance, while another 19.51% of the phenotypic variance is attributable to chromosomes without identified QTL. Thus, the missing heritability amounts to 7% only. Our results support a polygenic inheritance pattern of ACOP in cattle and provide the basis for efficient genomic selection of animals that are less susceptible to serious eye diseases.

22574787	Association of BoLA-DRB3 alleles with mastitis resistance and susceptibility in Japanese Holstein cows. In this study, 714 cows from 26 dairy herds were reclassified as healthy or mastitic cows on the basis of long-term somatic cell count (SCC) in milk. Cows with more than three consecutive lactation records of SCC from the first or second to fifth lactation, were selected, and their BoLA-DRB3 (DRB3) alleles were identified using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. Cows with an SCC of < 200 000 cells/mL in all monthly records were classified as healthy (n=91). Cows with an SCC of > 300 000  cells/mL in two consecutive tests or four non-consecutive tests or cows with an SCC of > 500 000 cells/mL in any one test during lactation, regardless of parity, were classified as mastitic (n=201). Mastitic cows (n=153) from another 40 herds  were considered to be infected if bacteriological testing revealed mastitis pathogens in milk. Their DRB3 alleles were identified using PCR-sequence-based typing (PCR-SBT). The differences in DRB3 allelic frequencies between healthy cows and cows with various degrees of mastitis were re-investigated. Moreover, the associations of various amino acid motifs in DRB3 alleles with resistance or  susceptibility to mastitis pathogens were re-examined. DRB3.2*8(DRB3*1201) and DRB3.2*16(DRB3*1501) alleles were found to be associated with susceptibility, while DRB3.2*22(DRB3*1101), DRB3.2*23(DRB3*2703), and DRB3.2*24(DRB3*0101) alleles were found to be associated with resistance.

22583824	Investigation on BRCA1 SNPs and its effects on mastitis in Chinese commercial cattle. The main objective of this study was to investigate whether the bovine breast cancer 1 (BRCA1) gene was associated with mastitis resistance in Chinese commercial cattle. A total of 51 SNPs were screened from public data resources and DNA sequencing. Three SNPs (c.5682G>C,c.26198C>T and c.46126G>T) were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and created restriction site PCR (CRS-PCR) methods and 21 combinations of these SNPs were observed. The single SNP and their genetic effects on somatic  cell score (SCS) were evaluated and a significant association with SCS was found  in c.46126G>T. The mean SCS of individuals with genotype KK was significantly lower than those of genotypes KL and LL. The results of combined genotypes analysis of three SNPs showed that HHLLNN genotype with the highest SCS was easily for the mastitis susceptibility, whereas GGKKMM genotype with the lowest SCS was favorable for the mastitis resistance. The information provided in the present study will be very useful for improving mastitis resistance in dairy cattle by marker-assisted selection (MAS).

22607022	Genome-wide association study identified three major QTL for carcass weight including the PLAG1-CHCHD7 QTN for stature in Japanese Black cattle. BACKGROUND: Significant quantitative trait loci (QTL) for carcass weight were previously mapped on several chromosomes in Japanese Black half-sib families. Two QTL, CW-1 and CW-2, were narrowed down to 1.1-Mb and 591-kb regions, respectively. Recent advances in genomic tools allowed us to perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in cattle to detect associations in a general population and estimate their effect size. Here, we performed a GWAS for  carcass weight using 1156 Japanese Black steers. RESULTS: Bonferroni-corrected genome-wide significant associations were detected  in three chromosomal regions on bovine chromosomes (BTA) 6, 8, and 14. The associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) on BTA 6 were in linkage disequilibrium with the SNP encoding NCAPG Ile442Met, which was previously identified as a candidate quantitative trait nucleotide for CW-2. In contrast, the most highly associated SNP on BTA 14 was located 2.3-Mb centromeric from the  previously identified CW-1 region. Linkage disequilibrium mapping led to a revision of the CW-1 region within a 0.9-Mb interval around the associated SNP, and targeted resequencing followed by association analysis highlighted the quantitative trait nucleotides for bovine stature in the PLAG1-CHCHD7 intergenic  region. The association on BTA 8 was accounted for by two SNP on the BovineSNP50  BeadChip and corresponded to CW-3, which was simultaneously detected by linkage analyses using half-sib families. The allele substitution effects of CW-1, CW-2,  and CW-3 were 28.4, 35.3, and 35.0 kg per allele, respectively. CONCLUSION: The GWAS revealed the genetic architecture underlying carcass weight  variation in Japanese Black cattle in which three major QTL accounted for approximately one-third of the genetic variance.

22614274	Association between CSN3 and BCO2 gene polymorphisms and milk performance traits  in the Czech Fleckvieh cattle breed. Daily milk, fat and protein yield and amount of somatic cells in cow milk are very important factors that influence milk performance traits. An association between polymorphisms in the kappa casein (CSN3) gene and milk production, composition and technical properties has been previously reported; however, this  type of information is not available for the bovine -carotene oxygenase 2 (BCO2) gene--the BCO2 gene has relationship with milk color and meat fat color, which is dependent on content of -carotene. We analyzed these two genes and their relationship with milk performance traits (daily milk, fat and protein yield, somatic cell count, SCC) in one cattle population, Czech Fleckvieh (N = 152). All animals were milked twice a day and kept in the same environmental conditions. The Fleckvieh is a typical Czech cattle breed farming for milk and meat production. It is the most common breed in the Czech Republic. DNA was isolated from milk or from hairs. Genes were analyzed using PCR-RFLP, frequencies of alleles and genotypes were calculated and association analysis was performed using a GLM Procedure in SAS. Statistical analysis established that the CSN3 gene has no statistically significant influence on daily milk, fat and protein yield and SCC. Compared to other references this result can be explained by, e.g., small group of animals and different cattle breed. The BCO2 gene (genotypes AA and AG) shows a statistically significant relationship (P = 0.05) with daily milk, protein yield and SCC.

22614348	Four SNPs of insulin-induced gene 1 associated with growth and carcass traits in  Qinchuan cattle in China. The insulin-induced gene 1 (Insig-1) is a regulator of lipid metabolism and plays an important role in the sterol-mediated regulation of SREBP, SCAP and HMG-CoA reductase. We used PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing to detect polymorphisms of the Insig-1 gene in 215 individuals of the Qinchuan cattle breed. Four SNPs [4366(A>G), 4534(T>C), 5001(T>C), and 5235(G>A)] were indentified. The association of the genetic viariation with growth and carcass traits (body length, withers height, hip width, slaughter weight, and carcass weight) was analyzed. The individuals with better performance had the GG genotype at locus A4366G, and CC genotypes at locus T4534C and locus T5001C. These could be used for beef cattle breeding improvement in China. Additionally, linkage disequilibrium analysis reflected that all mutations were in low linkage disequilibrium with each other. We concluded that polymorphisms in the Insig-1 gene are associated with growth and carcass traits and could be used for marker-assisted selection and management in beef cattle breeding programs.

22687279	Genes of the transforming growth factor-beta signalling pathway are associated with pre-implantation embryonic development in cattle. One of the main factors affecting cattle fertility is pre-implantation development of the bovine embryo, which is a complex process regulated by various signal-transduction pathways. The transforming growth factor- (TGF-) signalling system, which is responsible for many biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, also is involved in embryo development. We hypothesized that altered expression of TGF- genes in pre-implantation bovine embryos is associated with morphological abnormalities of these embryos. To test this hypothesis, we produced embryos in vitro and classified them at the blastocyst stage as either normally developed blastocysts  or degenerates (growth-arrested embryos). The expression patterns of 25 genes from the TGF- pathway were assessed using quantitative real time PCR. Ten genes  showed differential expression between the two embryo groups, four genes displayed similar expressional profiles, and 11 genes had no detectable expression. An altered expression profile was statistically significant for 10 of the 14 expressed genes, and all were up-regulated in degenerate embryos vs. blastocysts. Furthermore, genomic association analysis of the cows from which embryos were produced revealed a significant association of ID3 and BMP4 polymorphisms--two of the most significant differentially expressed genes--with fertilization rate and blastocyst rate, respectively. Taken together, we conclude that TGF- pathway genes, especially BMP4 and ID3 play a vital function in the regulation of pre-implantation embryo development at both embryo and maternal levels. Hence, these genes may be suitable as genetic markers for embryo development and fertility in cattle.

22742504	Genome-wide association study identifies candidate markers for bull fertility in  Holstein dairy cattle. The decline in the reproductive efficiency of dairy cattle has become a challenging problem worldwide. Female fertility is now taken into account in breeding goals while generally less attention is given to male fertility. The objective of this study was to perform a genome-wide association study in Holstein bulls to identify genetic variants significantly related to sire conception rate (SCR), a new phenotypic evaluation of bull fertility. The analysis included 1755 sires with SCR data and 38,650 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning the entire bovine genome. Associations between SNPs and SCR were analyzed using a mixed linear model that included a random polygenic effect and SNP genotype either as a linear covariate or as a categorical variable. A multiple testing correction approach was used to account for the correlation between SNPs because of linkage disequilibrium. After genome-wide correction, eight SNPs showed significant association with SCR. Some of these SNPs are located close to or in the middle of genes with functions related to male fertility, such as the sperm acrosome reaction, chromatin remodeling during  the spermatogenesis, and the meiotic process during male germ cell maturation. Some SNPs showed marked dominance effects, which provide more evidence for the relevance of non-additive effects in traits closely related to fitness such as fertility. The results could contribute to the identification of genes and pathways associated with male fertility in dairy cattle.

22742505	A whole genome scan for QTL affecting milk protein percentage in Italian Holstein cattle, applying selective milk DNA pooling and multiple marker mapping in a daughter design. We report on a complete genome scan for quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting milk protein percentage (PP) in the Italian Holstein-Friesian cattle population,  applying a selective DNA pooling strategy in a daughter design. Ten Holstein-Friesian sires were chosen, and for each sire, about 200 daughters, each from the high and low tails of estimated breeding value for PP, were used to construct milk DNA pools. Sires and pools were genotyped for 181 dinucleotide microsatellites covering all cattle autosomes. Sire marker allele frequencies in  the pools were obtained by shadow correction of peak height in the electropherograms. After quality control, pool data from eight sires were used for all subsequent analyses. The QTL heterozygosity estimate was lower than that  of similar studies in other cattle populations. Multiple marker mapping identified 19 QTL located on 14 chromosomes (BTA1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 14, 17, 20, 23 and 27). The sires were also genotyped for seven polymorphic sites in  six candidate genes (ABCG2, SPP1, casein kappa, DGAT1, GHR and PRLR) located within QTL regions of BTA6, 14 and 20 found in this study. The results confirmed  or excluded the involvement of some of the analysed markers as the causative polymorphic sites of the identified QTL. The QTL identified, combined with genotype data of these candidate genes, will help to identify other quantitative  trait genes and clarify the complex QTL patterns observed for a few chromosomes.  Overall, the results are consistent with the Italian Holstein population having been under long-term selection for high PP.

22792397	Identification and dissection of four major QTL affecting milk fat content in the German Holstein-Friesian population. Milk composition traits exhibit a complex genetic architecture with a small number of major quantitative trait loci (QTL) explaining a large fraction of the  genetic variation and numerous QTL with minor effects. In order to identify QTL for milk fat percentage (FP) in the German Holstein-Friesian (HF) population, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed. The study population consisted of 2327 progeny-tested bulls. Genotypes were available for 44,280 SNPs. Phenotypes in the form of estimated breeding values (EBVs) for FP were used as highly heritable traits. A variance components-based approach was used to account for population stratification. The GWAS identified four major QTL regions explaining 46.18% of the FP EBV variance. Besides two previously known FP QTL on  BTA14 (P=8.9110-(198)) and BTA20 (P=7.0310(-12)) within DGAT1 and GHR, respectively, we uncovered two additional QTL regions on BTA5 (P=2.0010(-13))  and BTA27 (P=9.8310(-5)) encompassing EPS8 and GPAT4, respectively. EPS8 and GPAT4 are involved in lipid metabolism in mammals. Re-sequencing of EPS8 and GPAT4 revealed 50 polymorphisms. Genotypes for five of them were inferred for the entire study population. Two polymorphisms affecting potential transcription factor binding sites of EPS8 (P=1.4010(-12)) and GPAT4 (P=5.1810(-5)), respectively, were highly significantly associated with the FP EBV. Our results provide evidence that alteration of regulatory sites is an important aspect of genetic variation of complex traits in cattle.

22811567	Candidate genes associated with testicular development, sperm quality, and hormone levels of inhibin, luteinizing hormone, and insulin-like growth factor 1  in Brahman bulls. Bull fertility is an important target for genetic improvement, and early prediction using genetic markers is therefore a goal for livestock breeding. We performed genome-wide association studies to identify genes associated with fertility traits measured in young bulls. Data from 1118 Brahman bulls were collected for six traits: blood hormone levels of inhibin (IN) at 4 mo, luteinizing hormone (LH) following a gonadotropin-releasing hormone challenge at  4 mo, and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) at 6 mo, scrotal circumference (SC) at 12 mo, ability to produce sperm (Sperm) at 18 mo, and percentage of normal sperm (PNS) at 24 mo. All the bulls were genotyped with the BovineSNP50 chip. Sires and dams of the bull population (n = 304) were genotyped with the high-density chip (800000 polymorphisms) to allow for imputation, thereby contributing detail on genome regions of interest. Polymorphism associations were discovered for all traits, except for Sperm. Chromosome 2 harbored polymorphisms  associated with IN. For LH, associated polymorphisms were located in five different chromosomes. A region of chromosome 14 contained polymorphisms associated with IGF1 and SC. Regions of the X chromosome showed associations with SC and PNS. Associated polymorphisms yielded candidate genes in chromosomes 2, 14, and X. These findings will contribute to the development of genetic markers to help select cattle with improved fertility and will lead to better annotation  of gene function in the context of reproductive biology.

22815983	The molecular effects of a polymorphism in the 5'UTR of solute carrier family 44, member 5 that is associated with birth weight in Holsteins. Dystocia is a major problem for the dairy cattle industry, and the observed high  rates of this condition stem from genetic selection to increase subsequent milk production of the calving female. Because smaller birth size does not adversely affect subsequent milk production, selecting for cows with a smaller birth size would reduce dystocia rates and be beneficial for both the cattle and the farmers. To identify genes that regulate birth weight, we conducted a genome-wide association study using 1151 microsatellite markers and identified a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associated with birth weight: A-326G in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of solute carrier family 44, member 5 (SLC44A5). Cows with higher birth weights carried the A polymorphism in the SLC44A5 5' UTR, and the presence of the A polymorphism correlated with a high rate of dystocia. Luciferase assays and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) assays revealed that SLC44A5 transcripts with the A polymorphism are expressed at lower  levels than those carrying the G polymorphism. SLC44A5 encodes a choline transporter-like protein, and choline is a component of the major phospholipids of cell membranes. Uptake studies in HeLa cells demonstrated that SLC44A5 knockdown reduces choline efflux, whereas SLC44A5 overexpression resulted in the  opposite effect. Furthermore, cell viability assays indicated that SLC44A5 knockdown increased cell proliferation, whereas SLC44A5 overexpression repressed  proliferation. Taken together, our results suggest that calves with reduced SLC44A5 expression are larger due to enhanced cell proliferation. This study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms that control birth weight in Holsteins and suggests that SLC44A5 may serve as a potential target for preventing dystocia.

22818350	Genetic and management factors affecting beef quality in grazing Hereford steers. Attributes contributing to differences in beef quality of 206 Hereford steers finished on pasture were assessed. Beef quality traits evaluated were: Warner-Bratzler meat tenderness and muscle and fat color at one and seven days after slaughter and trained sensory panel traits (tenderness, juiciness, flavor,  and marbling) at seven days. Molecular markers were CAPN1 316 and an SNP in exon  2 on the leptin gene (E2FB). Average daily live weight gain, ultrasound monthly backfat thickness gain and rib-eye area gain were estimated. Molecular markers effects on meat quality traits were analyzed by mixed models. Association of meat quality with post weaning growth traits was analyzed by canonical correlations. Muscle color and marbling were affected by CAPN1 316 and E2FB and Warner-Bratzler meat tenderness by the former. The results confirm that marker assisted selection for tenderness is advisable only when beef aging is a common practice. The most important sources of variation in tenderness and color of meat remained unaccounted for.

22840331	Polymorphisms of the bovine WNT10B gene and their associations with growth traits. Wingless-type MMTV integration site family, member 10B (WNT10B) may play an important role in inhibiting differentiation of preadipocytes in vitro and impairing adipose development in vivo. In this study, based on DNA sequencing and PCR-RFLP methods, we attempted to characterize the associations between common genetic polymorphisms in WNT10B and growth traits of 435 female cattle from three breeds (Jiaxian, Qinchuan and Luxi cattle). The results indicated that g.220A>G was in the intron 1, and g.1617C>T, g.3980G>T, g.4711G>C were in the coding region. At the g.3980G>T locus, Jiaxian cattle individuals with genotype TT had greater body length than those with genotypes GG and GT (P<0.05). At the g.220A>G locus, Qinchuan cattle individuals with genotype GG had greater growth traits than those with genotype AA and AG (P<0.05 or P<0.01). These statistical results  showed that the WNT10B gene might be a potential candidate gene for marker-assisted selection (MAS).

22843074	Novel single nucleotide polymorphisms of the bovine methyltransferase 3b gene and their association with meat quality traits in beef cattle. DNA methylation is essential for adipose deposition in mammals. We screened SNPs  of the bovine DNA methyltransferase 3b (DNMT3b) gene in Snow Dragon beef, a commercial beef cattle population in China. Nine SNPs were found in the population and three of six novel SNPs were chosen for genotyping and analyzing a possible association with 16 meat quality traits. The frequencies of the alleles  and genotypes of the three SNPs in Snow Dragon beef were similar to those in their terminal-paternal breed, Wagyu. Association analysis disclosed that SNP1 was not associated with any of the traits; SNP2 was significantly associated with lean meat color score and chuck short rib score, and SNP3 had a significant effect on dressing percentage and back-fat thickness in the beef population. The  individuals with genotype GG for SNP2 had a 25.7% increase in lean meat color score and a 146% increase in chuck short rib score, compared with genotype AA. The cattle with genotype AG for SNP3 had 35.7 and 24% increases in dressing percentage and 28.8 and 29.2% increases in back-fat thickness, compared with genotypes GG and AA, respectively. Genotypic combination analysis revealed significant interactions between SNP1 and SNP2 and between SNP2 and SNP3 for the  traits rib-eye area and live weight. We conclude that there is considerable evidence that DNMT3b is a determiner of beef quality traits.

22888914	Analyzes of genome-wide association follow-up study for calving traits in dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: There is often a pronounced disagreement between results obtained from different genome-wide association studies in cattle. There are multiple reasons for this disagreement. Particularly the presence of false positives leads to a need to validate detected QTL before they are optimally incorporated or weighted in selection decisions or further studied for causal gene. In dairy cattle progeny testing scheme new data is routinely accumulated which can be used to validate previously discovered associations. However, the data is not an independent sample and the sample size may not be sufficient to have enough power to validate previous discoveries. Here we compared two strategies to validate previously detected QTL when new data is added from the same study population. We compare analyzing a combined dataset (COMB) including all data presently available to only analyzing a validation dataset (VAL) i.e. a new dataset not previously analyzed as an independent replication. Secondly, we confirm SNP detected in the Reference population (REF) (i.e. previously analyzed dataset consists of older bulls) in the VAL dataset. RESULTS: Clearly the results from the combined (COMB) dataset which had nearly twice the sample size of other two subsets allowed the detection of far more significant associations than the two smaller subsets. The number of significant  SNPs in REF (older bulls) was about four times higher compare to VAL (younger bulls) though both had similar sample sizes, 2,219 and 2,039 respectively. A total of 424 SNP-trait combinations on 22 chromosomes showed genome-wide significant association involving 284 unique SNPs in the COMB dataset. In the REF data set 101 associations (73 unique SNPs) and in the VAL 24 associations (18 unique SNPs) were found genome-wide significant. Sixty-eight percent of the SNPs  in the REF dataset could be confirmed in the VAL dataset. Out of 469 unique SNPs  showing chromosome-wide significant association with calving traits in the REF dataset 321 could be confirmed in the VAL dataset at P<0.05. CONCLUSIONS: The follow-up study for GWAS in cattle will depend on the aim of the study. If the aim is to discover novel QTL, analyses of the COMB dataset is recommended, while in case of identification of the causal mutation underlying a  QTL, confirmation of the discovered SNPs are necessary to avoid following a false positive.

22916942	Genome-wide association mapping of milk production traits in Braunvieh cattle. A whole-genome association study of milk production traits: milk yield, protein yield, fat yield, protein percentage, and fat percentage, was performed on the population of Braunvieh cattle. Five hundred and fifty-four progeny-tested bulls  and 36,219 autosomal single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers on 29 Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) were included in the analysis. A principal component analysis was conducted to adjust for the effect of population stratification in the analyzed data set. For the principal component analysis, genome-wide relationships between individuals were calculated. Three different criteria (Horn's test, Kaiser's criterion, and Jolliffe's criterion) were tested to determine the number of significant principal components. Estimation of putative  associations between SNP and milk production traits was carried out using a linear regression model in R software (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). Significant principal components, adjusting for population stratification separately for each criterion and family relationships and genotypes at individual SNP were included as fixed effects in the model. The inflation factor  and quantile-quantile plots were calculated to compare how the different criteria deal with stratification in our mapping population. Based on the analyses on all of the aforementioned criteria, we can conclude that Jolliffe's criterion deals the best with population stratification. Furthermore,  significance thresholds for a given genome-wide false discovery rate of 5% were estimated and used for specific traits. Three of the analyzed traits showed genome-wide significant association with SNP. Two SNP had an effect on milk yield on BTA4, 2 SNP affected fat yield on BTA14 and BTA23, and 1 SNP was associated with fat percent on BTA1. Single nucleotide polymorphisms identified in this study as associated with milk production traits will further contribute to the mapping of corresponding quantitative trait loci and investigation of the genes responsible for polymorphisms in milk production traits in dairy cattle. Described comparison of different criteria for determination of significant principal components can provide important information for similar studies in stratified populations.

22921614	Comparative genomics between fly, mouse, and cattle identifies genes associated with sire conception rate. The decline in reproductive performance in cattle is of major concern to farmers  and the dairy industry worldwide. Most fertility studies in cattle have focused on fertility of the cow, whereas the genetics of male fertility have not been thoroughly investigated. The present study hypothesizes that the high conservation of spermatogenesis genes from fly to human implies important roles of these genes in male fertility in cattle. To test this hypothesis, we performed an association analysis between highly conserved spermatogenesis genes and sire conception rate (SCR) in US Holsteins as a measure of bull fertility. Sequencing  analysis revealed 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in 9 genes in the bull population using the pooled DNA sequencing approach. Five SNP previously identified in 5 genes from the POU1F1 pathway were also included in this study because they have shown significant associations with female and male fertility traits. Overall, 29 SNP located in 14 candidate genes were tested for association with sire conception rate in a population of 1,988 bulls. Three SNP located in MAP1B and 1 SNP in PPP1R11 showed significant associations with SCR. For the POU1F1 pathway, single gene analysis revealed significant associations of POU1F1  and STAT5A with SCR. Analysis of genotypic interactions between adjacent genes in the pathway revealed significant associations of STAT5A and UTMP genotypic combinations with SCR. The most significant spermatogenesis gene, MAP1B, was found to be associated with fertilization and blastocyst rates. Thus, the association of these genes with bull fertility testifies to the usefulness of the comparative genomics approach in selecting candidate male fertility genes.

22930427	A missense mutant of the PPAR- gene associated with carcass and meat quality traits in Chinese cattle breeds. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-) is a key molecule in adipocyte differentitation; it transactivates multiple target genes in lipid metabolic pathways. Using PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing, we evaluated a potential association of an SNP (72472 GT in exon7) of the bovine PPAR- gene with carcass and meat quality traits in 660 individuals from five Chinese indigenous cattle breeds, Qinchuan (QC), Luxi (LX), Nanyang (NY), Jiaxian (JX), and Xianan (XN). This 72472 GT mutation identified a missense mutation, Q448H. Two alleles were named C and D. Allele frequencies of PPAR--C/D in the five breeds were 0.7815/0.2185, 0.9/0.1, 0.7442/0.2558, 0.7051/0.2949, and 0.8333/0.1667 for QC, NY, JX, LX, and XN, respectively. Except for the XN breed, all breeds were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at this locus. The polymorphism information content was low for NY and XN (0.16 and 0.24, respectively), while it was moderately high for QC, JX, and LX (0.28, 0.31 and 0.33, respectively). Correlation analysis showed significant association of this missense mutation with carcass length, backfat thickness and water holding capacity in the QC breed. Animals with the genotype CD had significantly greater carcass length than those with genotypes CC and DD, while animals with genotype CC had significantly greater backfat thickness than those with genotypes CD and DD. Animals with genotype CC had lower water holding capacity than those with the genotypes CD and DD. In conclusion, this locus is a candidate for a major quantitative trait locus affecting production traits and could be used for beef breeding selection.

22930433	Association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the bovine leptin and leptin receptor genes with growth and ultrasound carcass traits in Nellore cattle. Given the important role of leptin in metabolism, we looked for a possible association of leptin and leptin receptor polymorphisms with carcass and growth traits in Nellore cattle. We examined associations of leptin and leptin receptor  SNPs with ultrasound carcass (longissimus dorsi muscle area (ribeye area), backfat thickness and rump fat thickness and growth traits (weaning weight adjusted to 210 days of age, yearling weight adjusted to 550 days of age, weight  gain of weaning to yearling and scrotal circumference adjusted to 550 days of age) of 2162 Bos primigenius indicus (Nellore) animals. Allele and genotypic frequencies were calculated for each marker. Allele substitution, additive and dominance effects of the polymorphisms were also evaluated. Some alleles of the molecular markers had low frequencies, lower than 1%, in the sample analyzed, although the same polymorphisms described for B. p. taurus cattle were found. Due to very low allelic frequencies, the E2JW, A59V and UASMS2 markers were not included in the analysis, because they were almost fixed. E2FB was found to be significantly associated with weight gain, ribeye area and backfat thickness. The promoter region markers, C963T and UASMS1, were also found to be significantly associated with ribeye area. T945M was significantly associated with weight gain. We conclude that the leptin and receptor gene markers would be useful for marker-assisted selection.

23031337	Genome-wide associations for feed utilisation complex in primiparous Holstein-Friesian dairy cows from experimental research herds in four European countries. Genome-wide association studies for difficult-to-measure traits are generally limited by the sample size with accurate phenotypic data. The objective of this study was to utilise data on primiparous HolsteinFriesian cows from experimental farms in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Sweden to identify genomic regions associated with the feed utilisation complex: fat and protein corrected milk yield (FPCM), dry matter intake (DMI), body condition score (BCS)  and live-weight (LW). Phenotypic data and 37 590 single nucleotide polymorphisms  (SNPs) were available on up to 1629 animals. Genetic parameters of the traits were estimated using a linear animal model with pedigree information, and univariate genome-wide association analyses were undertaken using Bayesian stochastic search variable selection performed using Gibbs sampling. The variation in the phenotypes explained by the SNPs on each chromosome was related  to the size of the chromosome and was relatively consistent for each trait with the possible exceptions of BTA4 for BCS, BTA7, BTA13, BTA14, BTA18 for LW and BTA27 for DMI. For LW, BCS, DMI and FPCM, 266, 178, 206 and 254 SNPs had a Bayes  factor .3, respectively. Olfactory genes and genes involved in the sensory smell  process were overrepresented in a 500 kbp window around the significant SNPs. Potential candidate genes were involved with functions linked to insulin, epidermal growth factor and tryptophan.

23031427	A genome-wide association study using international breeding-evaluation data identifies major loci affecting production traits and stature in the Brown Swiss  cattle breed. BACKGROUND: The genome-wide association study (GWAS) is a useful approach to identify genes affecting economically important traits in dairy cattle. Here, we  report the results from a GWAS based on high-density SNP genotype data and estimated breeding values for nine production, fertility, body conformation, udder health and workability traits in the Brown Swiss cattle population that is  part of the international genomic evaluation program. RESULT: GWASs were performed using 50k SNP chip data and deregressed estimated breeding values (DEBVs) for nine traits from between 2061 and 5043 bulls that were part of the international genomic evaluation program coordinated by Interbull Center. The nine traits were milk yield (MY), fat yield (FY), protein yield (PY), lactating cow's ability to recycle after calving (CRC), angularity (ANG), body depth (BDE), stature (STA), milk somatic cell score (SCS) and milk speed (MSP). Analyses were performed using a linear mixed model correcting for population confounding. A total of 74 SNPs were detected to be genome-wide significantly associated with one or several of the nine analyzed traits. The strongest signal was identified on chromosome 25 for milk production traits, stature and body depth. Other signals were on chromosome 11 for angularity, chromosome 24 for somatic cell score, and chromosome 6 for milking speed. Some signals overlapped with earlier reported QTL for similar traits in other cattle populations and were located close to interesting candidate genes worthy of further investigations. CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that international genetic evaluation data is a useful resource for identifying genetic factors influencing complex traits in livestock. Several genome wide significant association signals could be identified in the Brown Swiss population, including a major signal on BTA25. Our  findings report several associations and plausible candidate genes that deserve further exploration in other populations and molecular dissection to explore the  potential economic impact and the genetic mechanisms underlying these production  traits in cattle.

23107417	Genomic regions associated with bovine milk fatty acids in both summer and winter milk samples. BACKGROUND: In this study we perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for bovine milk fatty acids from summer milk samples. This study replicates a previous study where we performed a GWAS for bovine milk fatty acids based on winter milk samples from the same population. Fatty acids from summer and winter  milk are genetically similar traits and we therefore compare the regions detected in summer milk to the regions previously detected in winter milk GWAS to discover regions that explain genetic variation in both summer and winter milk. RESULTS: The GWAS of summer milk samples resulted in 51 regions associated with one or more milk fatty acids. Results are in agreement with most associations that were previously detected in a GWAS of fatty acids from winter milk samples,  including eight 'new' regions that were not considered in the individual studies. The high correlation between the -log10(P-values) and effects of SNPs that were found significant in both GWAS imply that the effects of the SNPs were similar on winter and summer milk fatty acids. CONCLUSIONS: The GWAS of fatty acids based on summer milk samples was in agreement with most of the associations detected in the GWAS of fatty acids based on winter milk samples. Associations that were in agreement between both GWAS are more likely to be involved in fatty acid synthesis compared to regions detected in only one GWAS and are therefore worthwhile to pursue in fine-mapping studies.

23122059	Detection of genetic association and functional polymorphisms of UGDH affecting milk production trait in Chinese Holstein cattle. BACKGROUND: We previously localized a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on bovine chromosome 6 affecting milk production traits to a 1.5-Mb region between BMS483 and MNB-209 via genome scanning followed by fine mapping. RESULTS: Totally 15 genes were mapped within such linkage region through bioinformatic analysis of the cattle-human comparative map and bovine genome assembly. Of them, the UDP-glucose dehydrogenase (UGDH) was suggested as a potential positional candidate gene for milk production traits based on its corresponding physiological and biochemical functions and genetic effects. By sequencing all the coding exons and the untranslated regions in UGDH with pooled  DNA of 8 sires represented the separated families detected in our previous studies, a total of ten SNPs were identified and genotyped in 1417 Holstein cows  of 8 separation families. Individual SNP-based association analysis revealed 4 significant associations of SNP Ex1-1, SNP Int3-1, SNP Int5-1, and SNP Ex12-3 with milk yield (P < 0.05), and 2 significant associations of SNP Ex1-1 and SNP Ex12-3 with protein yield (P < 0.05). Furthermore, our haplotype-based association analyses indicated that haplotypes G-C-C, formed by SNP Ex12-2-SNP Int11-1-SNP Ex11-1, T-G, formed by SNP Int9-3-SNP Int9-2, and C-C, formed by SNP  Int5-1-SNP Int3-1, are significantly associated with protein percentage (F=4.15;  P=0.0418) and fat percentage (F=5.18~7.25; P=0.0072~0.0231). Finally, by using an in vitro expression assay, we demonstrated that the A allele of SNP Ex1-1 and T allele of SNP Ex11-1of UGDH significantly decreases the expression of UGDH by 68.0% at the RNA, and 50.1% at the protein level, suggesting that SNP Ex1-1 and Ex11-1 represent two functional polymorphisms affecting expression of UGDH and may partly contributed to the observed association of the gene with milk production traits in our samples. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings strongly indicate that UGDH gene could  be involved in genetic variation underlying the QTL for milk production traits.

23137638	ZBTB38 gene polymorphism associated with body measurement traits in native Chinese cattle breeds. Body measurement traits, influenced by genes and environmental factors, play numerous important roles in the value assessment of productivity and economy. In  this study, we investigated the association between genetic polymorphisms of the  zinc finger and BTB domain containing 38 gene (ZBTB38) and body measurement traits in native Chinese cattle. Using direct DNA sequencing in 423 individuals of 8 different cattle subpopulations, 9 novel polymorphisms were identified for genotyping within 647 bp region of exon 1 of ZBTB38. Linkage disequilibrium and association analysis revealed that two coding exon polymorphisms (2323 G>A and 2325 C>T polymorphisms), missense mutations valine GTC(T) to isoleucine ATC(T), were associated with body length (BL), withers height (WH) and rump length (RL).  Furthermore, the analysis of 2323 G>A and 2325 C>T SNP markers shows that there are significant effects on the BL (P=0.0488), WH (P=0.0044) and RL (P=0.0314) in  the total population. These results clearly suggest that the ZBTB38 gene is among the target genes for body measurement traits in bovine breeding, and provide data for establishment of an animal model using cattle to study big animal body type.

23142388	Haplotype distribution in the GLI3 gene and their associations with growth traits in cattle. The glioma-associated oncogene family zinc finger 3 gene (GLI3) mediates in all vertebrates hedgehog (Hh) signaling that plays an essential role in the induction and patterning of numerous cell types during invertebrate and vertebrate development. In this study, a total of 6 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs: 1-6) were identified by polymerase chain reaction-single stranded conformational  polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA pool sequencing, including all 13 exons and 12 exon-intron boundaries within the bovine GLI3 gene. 16 haplotypes and 13 combined genotypes were revealed and the linkage disequilibrium was assessed in 708 individuals representing three main cattle breeds from China. The statistical analyses indicated that the SNP2, 3 and 4 are associated with the body weight at  birth and 6 months in Nanyang cattle population (P<0.05). No significant association was detected between 11 combined genotypes and body weight at five different ages. Our results provide evidence that polymorphisms in the GLI3 gene  are associated with growth traits, and may be used for marker-assisted selection  in beef cattle breeding program.

23148252	Heritability and Bayesian genome-wide association study of first service conception and pregnancy in Brangus heifers. Brangus [3/8 Brahman (Bos indicus)  5/8 Angus (Bos taurus); n  800] heifers from 67 sires were used to estimate heritability and conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for 2 binary fertility traits: first service conception  (FSC) and heifer pregnancy (HPG). Genotypes were from 53,692 loci on the BovineSNP50 (Infinium Bead Chips, Illumina, San Diego, CA). Yearling heifers were estrous synchronized, bred by AI, and then exposed to natural service breeding. Reproductive ultrasound and DNA-based parentage testing were used to determine if the heifer conceived by AI or natural service, and code for FSC and HPG traits. Success rates for FSC and HPG were 53.3% and 78.0%  0.01%, and corresponding heritability estimates were 0.18  0.07 and 0.10  0.06, respectively. The models used in obtaining these heritability estimates and GWAS included fixed effects of year (i.e., 2005 to 2007), birth location, calving season, age of dam, and contemporary group. In GWAS, simultaneous associations of 1 Mb SNP windows with phenotype were undertaken with Bayes C analyses using GenSel software. The 1 Mb windows contained 21.3  1.1 SNP. Analyses fitted a mixture model that treated SNP effects as random, with an assumed fraction pi = 0.9995 having no effect on phenotype. The windows that accounted for 1.0% of genetic variance were considered as QTL associated with FSC or HPG. Eighteen QTL existed on 15 chromosomes for the 2 traits. On average, each QTL accounted for 2.43%  0.2% of  the genetic variance. Chromosome 8 harbored 2 QTL for FSC and 1 for HPG; however, these regions did not overlap. Chromosomes 3, 15, 16, 19, 24, 26, 27, 29, and X included QTL only for FSC, whereas chromosomes 2, 4, 10, 13, and 20 contained QTL only for HPG. The multitude of QTL detected for FSC and HPG in this GWAS involving Brangus heifers exemplifies the complex regulation of variation in heifer fertility traits of low heritability.

23217223	Genome-wide associations for fertility traits in Holstein-Friesian dairy cows using data from experimental research herds in four European countries. Genome-wide association studies for difficult-to-measure traits are generally limited by the sample population size with accurate phenotypic data. The objective of this study was to utilise data on primiparous Holstein-Friesian cows from experimental farms in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Sweden to identify genomic regions associated with traditional measures of fertility, as well as a fertility phenotype derived from milk progesterone profiles. Traditional fertility measures investigated were days to first heat, days to first service, pregnancy rate to first service, number of services and calving interval (CI); post-partum interval to the commencement of luteal activity (CLA) was derived using routine milk progesterone assays. Phenotypic and genotypic data on 37 590 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were available for up to 1570 primiparous cows. Genetic parameters were estimated using linear animal models, and univariate and bivariate genome-wide association analyses were undertaken using Bayesian stochastic search variable selection performed using Gibbs sampling. Heritability estimates of the traditional fertility traits varied from 0.03 to 0.16; the heritability for CLA was 0.13. The posterior quantitative  trait locus (QTL) probabilities, across the genome, for the traditional fertility measures were all <0.021. Posterior QTL probabilities of 0.060 and 0.045 were observed for CLA on SNPs each on chromosome 2 and chromosome 21, respectively, in the univariate analyses; these probabilities increased when CLA was included in the bivariate analyses with the traditional fertility traits. For example, in the bivariate analysis with CI, the posterior QTL probability of the two aforementioned SNPs were 0.662 and 0.123. Candidate genes in the vicinity of these SNPs are discussed. The results from this study suggest that the power of genome-wide association studies in cattle may be increased by sharing of data and also possibly by using physiological measures of the trait under investigation.

23226511	Identification of a short region on chromosome 6 affecting direct calving ease in Piedmontese cattle breed. Calving in cattle is affected by calf morphology and by dam characteristics. It is described by two different traits: maternal calving ease, which is the ability to generate dams with good physiological predisposition to calving, and direct calving ease, which is the ability to generate calves that are easily born. The aim of this study was to identify regions of cattle genome harboring genes possibly affecting direct calving ease in the Piedmontese cattle breed. A population of 323 bulls scored for direct calving ease (EBV) was analyzed by a medium-density SNP marker panel (54,001 SNPs) to perform a genome-wide scan. The  strongest signal was detected on chromosome 6 between 37.8 and 38.7 Mb where 13 SNPs associated to direct calving ease were found. Three genes are located in this region: LAP3, encoding for a leucine aminopeptidase involved in the oxytocin hydrolysis; NCAPG, encoding for a non-SMC condensin I complex, which has been associated in cattle with fetal growth and carcass size; and LCORL, which has been associated to height in humans and cattle. To further confirm the results of the genome-wide scan we genotyped additional SNPs within these genes and analyzed their association with direct calving ease. The results of this additional analysis fully confirmed the findings of the GWAS and particularly indicated LAP3 as the most probable gene involved. Linkage Disequilibrium (LD) analysis showed high correlation between SNPs located within LAP3 and LCORL indicating a possible selection signature due either to increased fitness or breeders' selection for the trait.

23232357	SNP identification in FBXO32 gene and their associations with growth traits in cattle. The F-box protein 32 (FBXO32), also known as Atrogin-1, is one of the four subunits of the ubiquitin protein ligase complex. FBXO32 has been previously shown to be involved in regulation of initiation and development of muscle mass.  In the present study, we investigated the polymorphism of FBXO32 gene in 1313 cattle from seven bovine breeds using DNA sequencing, polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and PCR-based amplification-created restriction site (PCR-ACRS) methods. Four novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified within bovine FBXO32, and were deposited in the GenBank database. The association studies between these four SNPs and growth traits were performed in NanYang cattle. Notably, the SNPs ss411628932 and ss411628936 were shown to be significantly associated with body length of 24-month-old NanYang cattle. Based on the above four SNPs, 16 haplotypes were identified. The main haplotype was AATA, which occurred at a frequency of more than 40%. Additionally, phylogenetic analysis showed that geographical distance was essential to gene flow among seven cattle breeds. Indigenous bovine breeds displayed genetic difference in comparison to hybrid bovine breeds that have foreign origins. We herein describe for the first time a  comprehensive study on the variability of bovine FBXO32 gene that is predictive of genetic potential for body length phenotype.

23245960	Short communication: A missense mutation in the PROP1 (prophet of Pit 1) gene affects male fertility and milk production traits in the US Holstein population. In previous studies, we reported significant associations of the POU1F1 pathway genes with reproduction and production traits in several dairy cattle populations. Polymorphisms in genes of this pathway were found to be associated with both female and male fertility traits in dairy cattle. The POU1F1 gene is a  direct downstream target for the regulation of the prophet of Pit1 (PROP1) gene,  also known as PROP paired-like homeobox 1. Interestingly, the position of PROP1 coincides with a quantitative trait locus affecting ovulation rate in cattle. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate whether PROP1 affects fertility and milk production traits in Holstein cattle. Using the DNA pooling sequencing approach, a missense single nucleotide polymorphism that replaces a histidine amino acid with an arginine was detected in exon 3 of PROP1. The arginine allele was found to be associated with a decrease in sire conception rate and an increase in productive life, protein yield, and net merit index in a  population of 1,951 Holstein bulls. The transcription factors produced from the histidine and arginine isoforms are known to have different transcription, DNA binding, and regulation activities. As such, we propose that the association of the arginine isoform with decreased bull fertility is likely caused by reduced activity of this allele in male functions. The findings of this study suggest PROP1 polymorphisms as candidates in selection programs for fertility, health, and milk production traits in dairy cattle.

23291417	Association of the leptin gene E2-169T>C and E3-299T>A mutations with carcass and meat quality traits of the Chinese Simmental-cross steers. Leptin is a hormone affecting the regulation of body composition, energy balance, and meat quality in mammals. The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of novel single nucleotide polymorphisms in coding region for leptin  gene with carcass and meat quality traits of Chinese Simmental-cross steers. Two  SNPs (E2-169 T>C and E3-299 T>A) were genotyped on 135 crossbred bulls. The 45 traits being measured included dressing percentage, dressed weight, marbling score, muscle color score, backfat thickness, fatty acid content, etc. Statistical analysis revealed that two SNPs in the exon of leptin gene were associated with the carcass and meat quality traits. The C-bearing genotypes (CC  or TC) of E2-169 T>C (C57R) showed higher dressed weight, thickness of loin, MCS, FCS, intramuscular fat content, and polyunsaturated fatty acid content (P<0.05).  E3-299 >A(S100T) also showed a significant association with the carcass traits (dressing percentage, living QIB) and fatty acid content in Simmental-cross steers(P<0.05). Our findings suggested that polymorphisms in leptin might be one  of the important genetic factors that influence carcass yield and meat quality in beef cattle, and it may be a useful marker for meat quality traits in future marker-assisted selection programs in beef cattle breeding and production.

23403193	Sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1) polymorphism and milk fatty acid composition. Milk is known to contain high concentrations of saturated fatty acids-such as palmitic (16:0), myristic (14:0), and lauric (12:0) acids-that can raise plasma cholesterol in humans, making their presence in milk undesirable. The main objective of our candidate gene study was to develop genetic markers that can be  used to improve the healthfulness of bovine milk. The sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1) known to regulate the transcription of lipogenic genes together with SREBF chaperone and insulin induced gene 1 were the candidate genes. The results showed significant association of the overall SREBF1 haplotypes with milk production and variations in lauric (12:0) and myristic (14:0) acid concentrations in milk. Haplotype H1 of SREBF1 was the most desirable to improve milk healthfulness because it was significantly associated with lower  lauric (12:0) and myristic (14:0) acid concentrations compared with haplotype H3  of SREBF1, and lower lauric acid (12:0) concentration compared with haplotype H2  of SREBF1. Haplotype H1 of SREBF1, however, was significantly associated with lower milk production compared with haplotype H3 of SREBF1. We did not detect any significant associations between genetic polymorphisms in insulin induced gene 1  (INSIG1) and SREBF chaperone and milk fatty acid composition. In conclusion, genetic polymorphisms in SREBF1 can be used to develop genetic tools for the selection of animals producing milk with healthier fatty acid composition.

23500594	Identification and genetic effect of haplotype in the bovine BMP7 gene. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are peptide growth factors belonging to the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-) superfamily, and some members of the BMP  family support white adipocyte differentiation. In this study, we focused on the  BMP7 which singularly promotes the differentiation of brown preadipocytes. Haplotypes involving 5 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) sites in the bovine BMP7 gene were identified and their effect on body weight was analyzed. 16 haplotypes and 18 combined haplotypes were revealed and the linkage disequilibrium was assessed in the cattle population with 602 individuals representing three main cattle breeds from China. The results showed that haplotypes 3, 10 and 14 were predominant and accounted for 75.64%, 69.85%, and 83.36% in Nanyang, Qinchuan and Jiaxian cattle breeds, respectively. The statistical analyses indicated that the SNP 1, 4, and 5 are associated with the body weight, body length, and heart girth at 12 and 24 months in Nanyang cattle population (P<0.05), whereas there is no significant association between their 16 haplotypes and 18 combined haplotypes. Our results provide evidence that some SNPs and haplotypes in BMP7 are associated with growth traits, and may be utilized as a genetic marker in marker-assisted selection for beef cattle breeding programs.

23501244	Association of polymorphisms at DGAT1, leptin, SCD1, CAPN1 and CAST genes with color, marbling and water holding capacity in meat from beef cattle populations in Sweden. The objective of this study was to investigate the associations of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at five candidate genes with meat pH, color, marbling and water holding capacity (WHC) in young bulls from five beef breeds (n=243) in Sweden. The UASMS2 polymorphism at the leptin gene and the SNPs at the Stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 gene (SCD1.878) and -calpain gene (CAPN1:c.947) were associated with variation in meat color traits after 6days of exposure to air. The K232A polymorphism at the diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) gene and the CAPN1:c.947 SNP were associated with level of beef marbling. There was no association between the SNP at the calpastatin gene (CAST:c.155) and meat quality traits, nor was there any association of the tested SNPs with WHC traits and pH value.

23508024	Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms in genes involved in digestive  and metabolic processes associated with feed efficiency and performance traits in beef cattle. Discovery of genetic mutations that have a significant association with economically important traits would benefit beef cattle breeders. Objectives were to identify with an in silico approach new SNP in 8 genes involved in digestive function and metabolic processes and to examine the associations between the identified SNP and feed efficiency and performance traits. The association between SNP and daily DMI, ADG, midpoint metabolic weight (MMWT), residual feed intake (RFI), and feed conversion ratio (FCR; the ratio of average daily DMI to ADG) was tested in discovery and validation populations using a univariate mixed-inheritance animal model fitted in ASReml. Substitution effect of the T allele of SNP rs41256901 in protease, serine, 2 (trypsin 2; PRSS2) was associated with FCR (-0.293  0.08 kg DMI kg(-1) BW gain; P < 0.001) and RFI (-0.199  0.08  kg; P < 0.01) and although not significant in the validation population, the phase of association remained. In the cholecystokinin B receptor (CCKBR) gene, genotypes in rs42670351 were associated with RFI (P < 0.05) whereas genotypes in  rs42670352 were associated with RFI (P = 0.002) and DMI (P < 0.05). Substitution  of the G allele in rs42670352 was associated with DMI (-0.236  0.12 kg; P = 0.055) and RFI (-0.175  0.09 kg; P = 0.05). Substitution of the G allele of SNP  rs42670353 was associated with ADG (0.043  0.02 kg/d; P < 0.01) and FCR (0.114  0.05 kg BW gain kg(-1) DMI; P < 0.05). In the validation dataset, SNP rs42670352  in gene CCKBR was significant for RFI and DMI and had the same phase of associations; SNP rs42670353 was significantly associated with FCR with same phase of association and the C allele in SNP rs42670351 was validated as decreasing DMI, RFI, and FCR. Substituting the G allele of SNP rs42670352 in CCKBR2 was associated with decreasing DMI and RFI in the validation study. New SNP were reported in genes PRSS2 and CCKBR, being associated with feed efficiency and performance traits in beef cattle. The association between these SNP with fertility, carcass, and meat quality traits must still be tested.

23530766	Genome-wide association study of infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis in Angus  cattle. BACKGROUND: Infectious Bovine Keratoconjunctivitis (IBK) in beef cattle, commonly known as pinkeye, is a bacterial disease caused by Moraxellabovis. IBK is characterized by excessive tearing and ulceration of the cornea. Perforation of the cornea may also occur in severe cases. IBK is considered the most important ocular disease in cattle production, due to the decreased growth performance of infected individuals and its subsequent economic effects. IBK is an economically  important, lowly heritable categorical disease trait. Mass selection of unaffected animals has not been successful at reducing disease incidence. Genome-wide studies can determine chromosomal regions associated with IBK susceptibility. The objective of the study was to detect single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with genetic variants associated with IBK in American Angus cattle. RESULTS: The proportion of phenotypic variance explained by markers was 0.06 in the whole genome analysis of IBK incidence classified as two, three or nine categories. Whole-genome analysis using any categorisation of (two, three or nine) IBK scores showed that locations on chromosomes 2, 12, 13 and 21 were associated with IBK disease. The genomic locations on chromosomes 13 and 21 overlap with QTLs associated with Bovine spongiform encephalopathy, clinical mastitis or somatic cell count. CONCLUSIONS: Results of these genome-wide analyses indicated that if the underlying genetic factors confer not only IBK susceptibility but also IBK severity, treating IBK phenotypes as a two-categorical trait can cause information loss in the genome-wide analysis. These results help our overall understanding of the genetics of IBK and have the potential to provide information for future use in breeding schemes.

23548285	Genome-wide association analysis identifies loci for left-sided displacement of the abomasum in German Holstein cattle. Left-sided displacement of the abomasum (LDA) is one of the most common disorders of the digestive system in many dairy breeds and particularly in Holstein dairy cows. We performed a genome-wide association study for 854 German Holstein cows,  including 225 cases and 629 controls. All cows were genotyped using the Illumina  Bovine SNP50 BeadChip (Illumina Inc., San Diego, CA). After quality control of genotypes, a total of 36,226 informative single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were left for analysis. We used a mixed linear model approach for a genome-wide association study of LDA. In total, 36 SNP located on 17 bovine (Bos taurus) chromosomes (BTA) showed associations with LDA at nominal -log10P-values >3.0. Two of these SNP, located on BTA11 at 46.70 Mb and BTA20 at 16.67 Mb, showed genome-wide significant associations with LDA at -log10P-values >4.6. Pathway analyses indicated genes involved in calcium metabolism and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus to be factors in the pathogenesis of LDA in German Holstein cows.

23607548	Genome-wide association study for fatty acid composition in Japanese Black cattle. Fatty acid composition is one of the important traits in beef. The aim of this study was to identify candidate genomic regions for fatty acid composition by genome-wide association study with 50K single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array in Japanese Black cattle. A total of 461 individuals and 40657 SNPs were used in this study. We applied genome-wide rapid association using mixed model and regression (GRAMMAR) and genomic control approaches to estimate the associations between genotypes and fatty acid composition. In addition, two SNPs  in fatty acid synthase (FASN) (T1952A) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) (V293A)  genes were also genotyped. Association analysis revealed that 30 significant SNPs for several fatty acids (C14:0, C14:1, C16:1 and C18:1) were located in the BTA19FASN gene located within this region but the FASN mutation had no significant effect on any traits. We also detected one significant SNP for C18:1  on BTA23 and two SNPs for C16:0 on BTA25. The region around 17Mb on BTA26 harbored two significant SNPs for C14:1 and SNP in SCD in this region showed the  strongest association with C14:1. This study demonstrated novel candidate regions in BTA19, 23 and 25 for fatty acid composition.

23626813	Genetic variation in vitamin B-12 content of bovine milk and its association with SNP along the bovine genome. Vitamin B-12 (also called cobalamin) is essential for human health and current intake levels of vitamin B-12 are considered to be too low. Natural enrichment of the vitamin B-12 content in milk, an important dietary source of vitamin B-12, may help to increase vitamin B-12 intake. Natural enrichment of the milk vitamin  B-12 content could be achieved through genetic selection, provided there is genetic variation between cows with respect to the vitamin B-12 content in their  milk. A substantial amount of genetic variation in vitamin B-12 content was detected among raw milk samples of 544 first-lactation Dutch Holstein Friesian cows. The presence of genetic variation between animals in vitamin B-12 content in milk indicates that the genotype of the cow affects the amount of vitamin B-12 that ends up in her milk and, consequently, that the average milk vitamin B-12 content of the cow population can be increased by genetic selection. A genome-wide association study revealed significant association between 68 SNP and vitamin B-12 content in raw milk of 487 first-lactation Dutch Holstein Friesian cows. This knowledge facilitates genetic selection for milk vitamin B-12 content. It also contributes to the understanding of the biological mechanism responsible  for the observed genetic variation in vitamin B-12 content in milk. None of the 68 significantly associated SNP were in or near known candidate genes involved in transport of vitamin B-12 through the gastrointestinal tract, uptake by ileum epithelial cells, export from ileal cells, transport through the blood, uptake from the blood, intracellular processing, or reabsorption by the kidneys. Probably, associations relate to genes involved in alternative pathways of well-studied processes or to genes involved in less well-studied processes such as ruminal production of vitamin B-12 or secretion of vitamin B-12 by the mammary gland.

23632198	SNPs of bovine HGF gene and their association with growth traits in Nanyang cattle. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is one of the multifunctional cell factors that regulates cellular proliferation, motility and morphogenesis in mammalians. And its medical research has deep significance. In this paper, polymorphisms of HGF gene were investigated in 1433 health and irrelated Chinese cattle by PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing approach. Ten novel Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified, which included one missense mutation, g.72801G>A in the coding region, and the others in the intron. Association analysis between four of them,  g.288T>C, g.72801G>A, g.77172G>T, and g.77408T>G, and growth traits in Nanyang, were performed. The results indicated that SNPs within bovine HGF gene were significantly associated with growth traits. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the genetic background of Caoyuan Red cattle was different from the others in the tested breeds. The findings will provide a background for application of bovine HGF gene in the selection program in Chinese cattle.

23644023	Relationship of polymorphisms within ZBED6 gene and growth traits in beef cattle. ZBED6 is a novel transcription factor that was identified and shown to act as a repressor of IGF2 transcription in skeletal muscle. The aim of this study was to  examine the association of the ZBED6 polymorphism with growth traits in beef cattle breed. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified in the bovine ZBED6 by sequencing pooled DNA samples (Pool-Seq) and forced polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (Forced PCR-RFLP) methods. Overall, we reported one mutation (SNP1) in the promoter region and two  missense mutations (SNP2 and 3) in the coding region (single exon) within the bovine ZBED6 gene, and the haplotype variability and extent of linkage disequilibrium (LD) in 1522 individuals representing four main cattle breeds from China (Nanyang, NY; Qinchuan, QC; Jiaxian, JX; and Chinese Holstein, CH). We also investigated haplotype frequencies and linkage disequilibrium coefficients for three SNPs in all study populations. LD and haplotype structure of ZBED6 were different between breeds. The result of haplotype analysis of three SNPs showed that eight different haplotypes were identified in all breeds. The wild-type haplotype (Hap 1: GCA) and mutant-type haplotype (Hap 8: AGG) shared by all four  populations accounted for 15.1, 29.8, 21.7, 57.5% and 9.5, 8.6, 16.7, 0% of all haplotypes were observed in NY, QC, JX and CH, respectively. The statistical analyses indicated that three SNPs were significantly associated with growth traits in NY cattle population (P<0.05 or P<0.01) at five different ages. The results of this study suggest that the ZBED6 gene possibly is a strong candidate  gene that affects growth traits in beef cattle breeding program.

23647079	A novel c.-274C>G polymorphism in bovine SIRT1 gene contributes to diminished promoter activity and is associated with increased body size. SIRT1, a mammalian homologue for yeast silent information regulator 2 (SIR2), is  a NAD(+) -dependent deacetylase that belongs to the class III histone deacetylases. It plays an important role in diverse cellular processes, including stress resistance, mitochondrial function, suppression of inflammation and DNA repair. In this study, we screened and identified a novel polymorphism (c.-274C>G) in the SIRT1 promoter region. In silico prediction reveals that this  SNP is in the core of cell cycle-dependent element (CDE)-binding motif. Interestingly, the G allele abolished a CDE-binding site, which suggested its functional significance. In the luciferase assay system, we found that the G allele-containing construct displayed a strikingly lower promoter activity compared with the C allele, which may downregulate SIRT1 expression levels. Additionally, we observed a significant association between the c.-274C>G polymorphism and growth traits in Nanyang cattle, suggesting that anomalous transcription factor-based repression of SIRT1 may increase bovine fat mass and body size.

23647142	Confirmation and fine-mapping of clinical mastitis and somatic cell score QTL in  Nordic Holstein cattle. A genome-wide association study of 2098 progeny-tested Nordic Holstein bulls genotyped for 36387 SNPs on 29 autosomes was conducted to confirm and fine-map quantitative trait loci (QTL) for mastitis traits identified earlier using linkage analysis with sparse microsatellite markers in the same population. We used linear mixed model analysis where a polygenic genetic effect was fitted as a random effect and single SNPs were successively included as fixed effects in the  model. We detected 143 SNP-by-trait significant associations (P<0.0001) on 20 chromosomes affecting mastitis-related traits. Among them, 21 SNP-by-trait combinations exceeded the genome-wide significant threshold. For 12 chromosomes,  both the present association study and the previous linkage study detected QTL, and of these, six were in the same chromosomal locations. Strong associations of  SNPs with mastitis traits were observed on bovine autosomes 6, 13, 14 and 20. Possible candidate genes for these QTL were identified. Identification of SNPs in linkage disequilibrium with QTL will enable marker-based selection for mastitis resistance. The candidate genes identified should be further studied to detect candidate polymorphisms underlying these QTL.

23691044	Impact of variation at the FTO locus on milk fat yield in Holstein dairy cattle. This study explores the biological role of the Fat Mass and Obesity associated (FTO) gene locus on milk composition in German Holstein cattle. Since FTO controls energy homeostasis and expenditure and the FTO locus has repeatedly shown association with obesity in human studies, we tested FTO as a candidate gene in particular for milk fat yield, which represents a high amount of energy secreted during lactation. The study was performed on 2,402 bulls and 860 cows where dense milk composition data were available. Genetic information was taken from a 2 Mb region around FTO. Five SNPs and two haplotype blocks in a 725 kb region covering FTO and the neighboring genes RPGRIP1L, U6ATAC, and 5 S rRNA were associated with milk fat yield and also affected protein yield in the same direction. Interestingly, higher frequency SNP alleles and haplotypes within the  FTO gene increased milk fat and protein yields by up to 2.8 and 2.2 kg per lactation, respectively, while the most frequent haplotype in the upstream block  covering exon 1 of FTO to exon 15 of RPGRIP1L had opposite effects with lower fat and milk yield. Both haplotype blocks were also significant in cows. The loci accounted for about 1% of the corresponding trait variance in the population. The association signals not only provided evidence for at least two causative mutations in the FTO locus with a functional effect on milk but also milk protein yield. The pleiotropic effects suggest a biological function on the usage of energy resources and the control of energy balance rather than directly affecting fat and protein synthesis. The identified effect of the obesity gene locus on milk energy content suggests an impact on infant nutrition by breast feeding in humans.

23718263	Association of a single nucleotide polymorphism in the akirin 2 gene with economically important traits in Korean native cattle. The akirin 2 gene, located on chromosome 9 in cattle, was previously reported to  be associated with nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B), involved in immune reactions and marbling of meat. To determine whether a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in akirin 2 is associated with economically important traits of Korean native cattle, the c.*188G>A SNP DNA marker in the 3'-UTR region of akirin 2 was analyzed for its association with carcass weight, longissimus muscle area and marbling. The c.*188G>A SNP was genotyped by polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism, and the frequency of the AA, AG, and GG genotypes were 6.82%, 71.29% and 21.88% respectively. This SNP was significantly  associated with longissimus muscle area (Bonferroni corrected P<0.05), and marbling score (Bonferroni corrected P<0.01). These results suggest that the c.*188G>A SNP of akirin 2 might be useful as a DNA marker for longissimus muscle  area and marbling scores in Korean native cattle.

23726425	Angiopoietin-2 (ANGPT2) as a candidate gene for somatic cell score in German Holstein cattle. This study evaluated the bovine angiopoietin-2 (ANGPT2) gene as a functional and  positional candidate gene underlying a previously fine mapped quantitative trait  locus (QTL) for somatic cell score on bovine chromosome 27. The gene product angiopoietin-2 is directly involved in the extravasation of neutrophils, making it a promising candidate to control the amount of somatic cells in milk. A total  of 11 polymorphisms were identified within the gene by comparatively resequencing the entire open reading frame of the gene as well as adjacent intronic regions. Four selected variants were genotyped in the same granddaughter design used for QTL mapping and an association study was carried out applying 2 complementary approaches. A variable number of tandem repeats in intron 7 of the gene was found to be significantly associated with cell score in all approaches and explains approximately half of the QTL variance. Analysis of ANGPT2 mRNA expression in different localizations of the udder in animals putatively carrying divergent QTL alleles revealed differential expression in the udder lymph node. Together with the physiological role of angiopoietin-2, these results support a role of ANGPT2  in the genetic control of somatic cell score. Further studies are, however, needed to further underpin this hypothesis.

23736055	A genomewide association study identified CYP2J2 as a gene controlling serum vitamin D status in beef cattle. Vitamin D is an important modulator of calcium homeostasis and has several effects on the immune system. The objective of the study was to estimate its heritability and to identify genomic regions associated with concentration of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) in beef cattle. Status of vitamin D was measured in crossbred animals from Cycle VII of the United States Meat Animal Research Center (USMARC) Germplasm Evaluation Project. Progeny were born from March through May in 2008 and in 2010. Heritability was estimated and a genomewide association study was conducted on the concentration of 25OHD measured in 1,432 animals at preconditioning and 1,333 animals at weaning. Genotyping of the population was done by imputing from the parental generation genotyped with a high density array (777,000 SNP) to a target population genotyped with a medium density SNP array (50,000 SNP). After imputation, 675,018 SNP were used in the genomewide association study. Heritability of concentration of circulating 25OHD  in cattle at preconditioning and at weaning was 0.41  0.08 and 0.32  0.11, respectively. A region on chromosome 3 was associated with circulating 25OHD. The region on BTA3 had 7 SNP significantly (P < 7.4  10(-8)) associated at the genomewide level with serum concentrations of serum 25OHD. Genomewide significant SNP spanned the region between 84.93 and 86.65 megabases (Mb); however, 6 SNP reside between 86.64 and 86.65 Mb. The gene CYP2J2 was identified as a candidate  gene associated with concentrations of serum 25OHD in cattle. This is 1 of 6 enzymes involved in metabolizing vitamin D to 25OHD. Results from the present study suggest that CYP2J2 is a gene controlling serum 25OHD concentrations in cattle. CYP2J2 should be considered a prime candidate for understanding both genetic and physiological factors affecting serum 25OHD concentrations in cattle  and, therefore, vitamin D status.

23736061	Candidate genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with variation in  residual feed intake in beef cattle. The candidate gene approach was used to identify genes associated with residual feed intake (RFI) in beef steers. The approach uses prior knowledge of gene functions to predict their biological role in the variation observed in a trait.  It is suited to identify genes associated with complex traits where each gene has a relatively small effect. First, positional candidate genes were identified within the genomic positions of previously reported QTL associated with component traits related to RFI such as dry matter intake (DMI), growth, feed conversion ratio (FCR), average daily gain (ADG), and energy balance. Secondly, the positional candidate genes were prioritized into functional candidate genes according to their biological functions and their relationship with the biological processes associated with RFI including carbohydrate, fat and protein  metabolism, thermoregulation, immunity and muscle activity. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located within the functional candidate genes were identified using mRNA sequences and prioritized into functional classes such as non-synonymous (nsSNP), synonymous (sSNP) or intronic SNP. A total of 117 nsSNP were considered as functional SNP and genotyped in steers at the University of Alberta ranch in Kinsella. Multiple marker association analysis in ASReml was performed using RFI data obtained from 531 beef steers. Twenty-five SNP were significantly associated with RFI (P < 0.05) accounting for 19.7% of the phenotypic variation. Using SIFT program to predict the effect of the SNP on the  function of the corresponding protein, 3 of the 25 SNP were predicted to cause a  significant effect on protein function (P < 0.05). One of the 3 SNP was located in the GHR gene and was also associated with a significant effect on the tertiary structure of the GHR protein (P < 0.05) as modeled using SWISSModel software. Least square means for each genotype were estimated and an over-dominance effect  was observed for the SNP located in the GHR, CAST, ACAD11 and UGT3A1 genes. In addition, 2 other SNP showed a dominance effect and 3 genes had an additive effect. Gene network analysis performed in Ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) software (Ingenuity Systems, www.ingenuity.com) indicated that the significant genes were involved in biological pathways such as lipid, protein and energy metabolism, electron transport and membrane signaling. The genes in this study, if validated in other beef cattle populations, may be useful for marker assisted  selection for feed efficiency.

23746587	The occurrence of noncoagulating milk and the association of bovine milk coagulation properties with genetic variants of the caseins in 3 Scandinavian dairy breeds. Substantial variation in milk coagulation properties has been observed among dairy cows. Consequently, raw milk from individual cows and breeds exhibits distinct coagulation capacities that potentially affect the technological properties and milk processing into cheese. This variation is largely influenced  by protein composition, which is in turn affected by underlying genetic polymorphisms in the major milk proteins. In this study, we conducted a large screening on 3 major Scandinavian breeds to resolve the variation in milk coagulation traits and the frequency of milk with impaired coagulation properties (noncoagulation). In total, individual coagulation properties were measured on morning milk collected from 1,299 Danish Holstein (DH), Danish Jersey (DJ), and Swedish Red (SR) cows. The 3 breeds demonstrated notable interbreed differences in coagulation properties, with DJ cows exhibiting superior coagulation compared  with the other 2 breeds. In addition, milk samples from 2% of DH and 16% of SR cows were classified as noncoagulating. Furthermore, the cows were genotyped for  major genetic variants in the S1- (CSN1S1), - (CSN2), and -casein (CSN3) genes, revealing distinct differences in variant frequencies among breeds. Allele I of CSN2, which had not formerly been screened in such a high number of cows in  these Scandinavian breeds, showed a frequency around 7% in DH and DJ, but was not detected in SR. Genetic polymorphisms were significantly associated with curd firming rate and rennet coagulation time. Thus, CSN1S1 C, CSN2 B, and CSN3 B positively affected milk coagulation, whereas CSN2 A(2), in particular, had a negative effect. In addition to the influence of individual casein genes, the effects of CSN1S1-CSN2-CSN3 composite genotypes were also examined, and revealed  strong associations in all breeds, which more or less reflected the single gene results. Overall, milk coagulation is under the influence of additive genetic variation. Optimal milk for future cheese production can be ensured by monitoring the frequency of unfavorable variants and thus preventing an increase in the number of cows producing milk with impaired coagulation. Selective breeding for variants associated with superior milk coagulation can potentially increase raw milk quality and cheese yield in all 3 Scandinavian breeds.

23758855	Parity-dependent association between TNF- and LTF gene polymorphisms and clinical mastitis in dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: One major problem in dairy cattle husbandry is the prevalence of udder infections. In today's breeding programmes, top priority is being given to  making animal evaluation more cost-effective and reliable and less time-consuming. We proposed tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-), lactoferrin (LTF) and macrophage-expressed lysozyme (mLYZ) genes as potential DNA markers in the improvement of immunity to mastitis.This study included 588 Polish Holstein-Friesian cows kept on one farm located in the north-western region of Poland. All clinical cases of mastitis in the herd under study were recorded by a qualified veterinarian employed by the farm. The following indicators were applied to determine udder immunity to mastitis in the cows under study: morbidity rate (MR), duration of mastitis (DM) and extent of mastitis (EM). TNF-, mLYZ and LTF genotypes were identified by real-time PCR method, using SimpleProbe technology. Due to the very low frequency of mLYZ allele T, the gene  was excluded from further analysis.A statistical analysis of associations between TNF- and LTF genes and immunity to mastitis were performed using three models: 1) a parity-averaged model including only additive effects of the genes; 2) a parity-averaged model including both additive and epistatic effects of the genes; and 3) a parity-specific model including only additive effects of the genes. RESULTS: With the first and second models it was revealed that the genes effects  on the applied indicators of immunity to mastitis were non-significant whereas with the third one the effects were found to be statistically significant. Particularly noteworthy was the finding that the effects of TNF- and LTF varied  depending on age (parity). The alleles which were linked to high immunity to mastitis in lower parities appeared to be less favourable in higher parities. CONCLUSIONS: These interactions might be related to inflamm-ageing, that is an increased susceptibility to infection due to immune system deregulation that progresses with age. Such pattern of interactions makes it impossible to use the  genes in question in marker-assisted selection aimed at reducing heritable susceptibility to mastitis. This is because the immune mechanisms behind resistance to infections proved to be too complex.

23759029	Discovery of single nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate genes associated with fertility and production traits in Holstein cattle. BACKGROUND: Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for specific genes involved in reproduction might improve reliability of genomic estimates for these low-heritability traits. Semen from 550 Holstein bulls of high ( 1.7; n =  288) or low ( -2; n = 262) daughter pregnancy rate (DPR) was genotyped for 434 candidate SNPs using the Sequenom MassARRAY system. Three types of SNPs were evaluated: SNPs previously reported to be associated with reproductive traits or  physically close to genetic markers for reproduction, SNPs in genes that are well known to be involved in reproductive processes, and SNPs in genes that are differentially expressed between physiological conditions in a variety of tissues associated in reproductive function. Eleven reproduction and production traits were analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 40 SNPs were associated (P < 0.05) with DPR. Among these were genes involved in the endocrine system, cell signaling, immune function and inhibition of apoptosis. A total of 10 genes were regulated by estradiol. In addition, 22 SNPs were associated with heifer conception rate, 33 with cow conception rate, 36 with productive life, 34 with net merit, 23 with milk yield,  19 with fat yield, 13 with fat percent, 19 with protein yield, 22 with protein percent, and 13 with somatic cell score. The allele substitution effect for SNPs  associated with heifer conception rate, cow conception rate, productive life and  net merit were in the same direction as for DPR. Allele substitution effects for  several SNPs associated with production traits were in the opposite direction as  DPR. Nonetheless, there were 29 SNPs associated with DPR that were not negatively associated with production traits. CONCLUSION: SNPs in a total of 40 genes associated with DPR were identified as well as SNPs for other traits. It might be feasible to include these SNPs into genomic tests of reproduction and other traits. The genes associated with DPR are likely to be important for understanding the physiology of reproduction. Given the large number of SNPs associated with DPR that were not negatively associated  with production traits, it should be possible to select for DPR without compromising production.

23785023	Genome-wide association study for inhibin, luteinizing hormone, insulin-like growth factor 1, testicular size and semen traits in bovine species. The fertility of young bulls impacts on reproduction rates, farm profit and the rate of genetic progress in beef herds. Cattle researchers and industry therefore routinely collect data on the reproductive performance of bulls. Genome-wide association studies were carried out to identify genomic regions and genes associated with reproductive traits measured during the pubertal development of Tropical Composite bulls, from 4 to 24 months of age. Data from 1 085 bulls were  collected for seven traits: blood hormone levels of inhibin at 4 months (IN), luteinizing hormone following a gonadotropin releasing hormone challenge at 4 months (LH), insulin-like growth factor 1 at 6 months (IGF1), scrotal circumference at 12 months (SC), sperm motility at 18 months (MOT), percentage of normal spermatozoa at 24 months (PNS) and age at a scrotal circumference of 26 cm (AGE26, or pubertal age). Data from 729 068 single-nucleotide polymorphisms were  used in the association analysis. Significant polymorphism associations were discovered for IN, IGF1, SC, AGE26 and PNS. Based on these associations, INHBE, INHBC and HELB are proposed as candidate genes for IN regulation. Polymorphisms associated with IGF1 mapped to the PLAG1 gene region, validating a reported quantitative trait locus on chromosome 14 for IGF1. The X chromosome contained most of the significant associations found for SC, AGE26 and PNS. These findings  will contribute to the identification of diagnostic genetic markers and informed  genomic selection strategies to assist breeding of cattle with improved fertility. Furthermore, this work provides evidence contributing to gene function annotation in the context of male fertility.

23820447	Polymorphism in PGLYRP-1 gene by PCR-RFLP and its association with somatic cell score in Chinese Holstein. Bovine peptidoglycan recognition protein 1 (PGLYRP-1), an important pattern recognition molecule (PRM) of the innate immune system, is an effector molecule in killing different microorganisms directly. To investigate whether the PGLYRP-1 gene was associated with mastitis and milk production traits in dairy cattle, the polymorphism of this gene was analyzed by PCR-RFLP in a population of 524 Chinese Holstein. A total of ten single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci were identified. The association analysis of single SNP locus showed that T-35A, T-12G and G+102C were significantly associated (P<0.05) with somatic cell score (SCS),  while G+102C and G+649C were significantly associated (P<0.05) with 305-day milk  yield. Association analysis between combined haplotypes and SCS, milk production  traits indicated that H3H3 was associated with the lower SCS (P<0.01), and H2H2 was associated with the lower 305-day milk yield (P<0.01). These findings demonstrated that polymorphisms in PGLYRP-1 gene associated with mastitis resistance and 305-day milk yield, and the H3H3 would provide a useful genetic marker of combined haplotypes for mastitis resistance selection and breeding in Chinese Holstein.

23831098	Association of polymorphisms in solute carrier family 27, isoform A6 (SLC27A6) and fatty acid-binding protein-3 and fatty acid-binding protein-4 (FABP3 and FABP4) with fatty acid composition of bovine milk. The main goal of this study was to develop tools for genetic selection of animals producing milk with a lower concentration of saturated fatty acids (SFA) and a higher concentration of unsaturated fatty acids (UFA). The reasons for changing milk fatty acid (FA) composition were to improve milk technological properties, such as for production of more spreadable butter, and milk nutritional value with respect to the potentially adverse effects of SFA on human health. We hypothesized that genetic polymorphisms in solute carrier family 27, isoform A6 (SLC27A6) fatty acid transport protein gene and fatty acid binding protein (FABP)-3 and FABP-4 (FABP3 and FABP4) would affect the selectivity of FA uptake into, and FA redistribution inside, mammary epithelial cells, resulting in altered FA composition of bovine milk. The objectives of our study were to discover genetic polymorphisms in SLC27A6, FABP3, and FABP4, and to test those polymorphisms for associations with milk FA composition. The results showed that  after pairwise comparisons between SLC27A6 haplotypes for significantly associated traits, haplotype H3 was significantly associated with 1.37 weight percentage (wt%) lower SFA concentration, 0.091 lower SFA:UFA ratio, and 0.17 wt% lower lauric acid (12:0) concentration, but 1.37 wt% higher UFA and 1.24 wt% higher monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) concentrations compared with haplotype H1 during the first 3 mo of lactation. Pairwise comparisons between FABP4 haplotypes for significantly associated traits showed that haplotype H3 was significantly associated with 1.04 wt% lower SFA concentration, 0.079 lower SFA:UFA ratio, 0.15 wt% lower lauric acid (12:0), and 0.27 wt% lower myristic acid (14:0) concentrations, but 1.04 wt% higher UFA and 0.91 wt% higher MUFA concentrations compared with haplotype H1 during the first 3 mo of lactation. Percentages of genetic variance explained by H3 versus H1 haplotype substitutions for SLC27A6 and FABP4 ranged from 2.50 to 4.86% and from 4.91 to 7.22%, respectively. Tag single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified to distinguish  haplotypes H3 of SLC27A6 and FABP4 from others encompassing each gene. We found no significant associations between FABP3 haplotypes and milk FA composition. In  conclusion, polymorphisms in FABP4 and SLC27A6 can be used to select for cattle producing milk with lower concentrations of SFA and higher concentrations of UFA.

23851991	Genome-wide association analyses for growth and feed efficiency traits in beef cattle. A genome-wide association study using the Illumina 50K BeadChip included 38,745 SNP on 29 BTA analyzed on 751 animals, including 33 purebreds and 718 crossbred cattle. Genotypes and 6 production traits: birth weight (BWT), weaning weight (WWT), ADG, DMI, midtest metabolic BW (MMWT), and residual feed intake (RFI), were used to estimate effects of individual SNP on the traits. At the genome-wide level false discovery rate (FDR < 10%), 41 and 5 SNP were found significantly associated with BWT and WWT, respectively. Thirty-three of them were located on BTA6. At a less stringent significance level (P < 0.001), 277 and 27 SNP were in  association with single traits and multiple traits, respectively. Seventy-three SNP on BTA6 and were mostly associated with BW-related traits, and heavily located around 30 to 50Mb. Markers that significantly affected multiple traits appeared to impact them in same direction. In terms of the size of SNP effect, the significant SNP (P < 0.001) explained between 0.26 and 8.06% of the phenotypic variation in the traits. Pairs of traits with low genetic correlation, such as ADG vs. RFI or DMI vs. BWT, appeared to be controlled by 2 groups of SNP; 1 of them affected the traits in same direction, the other worked in opposite direction. This study provides useful information to further assist the identification of chromosome regions and subsequently genes affecting growth and  feed efficiency traits in beef cattle.

23860327	Effect of genetic variations within the SH2B2 gene on the growth of Chinese cattle. As an adaptor protein, apart from potentiating Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) activation and promoting the insulin signaling pathway, Src homology 2 B 2 (SH2B2) indirectly takes part in the regulation of glucose uptake through the c-Cb1/CAP/TC10 pathway, which can in turn affect growth. In this study, we identified a 4bp indel mutation and three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)  within the SH2B2 gene in 959 individuals from five Chinese cattle breeds by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and sequencing. Based on the four variations, 12 haplotypes were identified. Additionally, there was a tendency that in every population pair-wise linkages increased progressively from V1-V2 to V3-V4. By association analysis, positive effects of genotypes CC and CT (snp1220 locus), DI (4bp indel locus), and CC (snp21049 locus) on growth traits were obtained. Furthermore, when combined, individuals with the combination CCDITTCC showed the best performance at an early age. These results were suggestive of an association of snp1220, 4bp indel and snp12049 with growth performance in Nanyang cattle, indicating possibly the candidate role of the SH2B2 gene in marker assisted selection in a beef cattle breeding program.

23871946	SIRT1 gene polymorphisms are associated with growth traits in Nanyang cattle. Growth is under complex genetic control and uncovering the molecular mechanisms how the genes and polymorphisms affect economic growth traits, are important for  successful marker-assisted selection and more efficient management strategies in  commercial cattle populations. SIRT1 is a NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that belongs to the class III histone deacetylases. It plays an important role in numerous fundamental cellular processes including gene silencing, DNA repair, and metabolic regulation. In addition, SIRT1 acts as an inhibitor of adipogenesis and has been associated with body weight regulation. The objective of the present study was to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of bovine SIRT1 using 1255 animals representing the five main Chinese breeds and to determine if  these SNPs are associated with economically important traits in Nanyang cattle. The approach consisted of resequencing SIRT1 using a panel of DNA from unrelated  animals of five different breeds and the process revealed five novel SNPs. SNPs g.17324T>C and g.17491G>A exhibited a high degree of linkage disequilibrium in all tested breeds. Seven major haplotypes accounting for 91.2% of the alleles were observed and the haplotype 'GCCGA' was the most common haplotype in NY, QC,  LX and JX breeds. An association analysis was performed between the five SNPs and six performance traits. SNP g.-274C>G was demonstrated to have a strong effect on 24-months-old body weight and g.17379A>G polymorphism was related to 6 and 12-months-old body weight in NY population, although these effects did not remained significant after the Bonferroni correction. Our results provide evidence that polymorphisms in SIRT1 are associated with growth efficiency traits, and may be used for marker-assisted selection and management in feedlot cattle.

23872232	Proopiomelanocortin gene polymorphisms and its association with meat quality traits by ultrasound measurement in Chinese cattle. Ultrasound technology was used to measure live animal meat traits instead of true carcass meat traits for beef production and cattle breeding by an increasing number of institutions. In this study, we analyzed the association between genetic polymorphisms of proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and ultrasound measurement traits in Chinese cattle. Using direct DNA sequencing in 322 individuals of 7 different cattle subpopulation, 7 SNPs were identified for genotyping within 790bp region of intron 2 and exon 3 of POMC. 6586 T>G in intron 2 and 6769 C>T and 7216 C>T in exon 3 were significantly associated with ultrasound backfat thickness (UBF) (P<0.05) and ultrasound loin muscle area (ULMA) (P<0.01) in the total population; 6694 C>T, 6706 T>C, 6796 C>T and 6810 C>T in exon 3 were significantly associated with ULMA (P<0.0001) in the total population. These results clearly suggest that these SNPs of POMC be benefit for selection of individuals with good quality meat in Chinese cattle breeding program. Following  validation in other populations and breeds, these markers could be incorporated into breeding programs to increase the rate of improvement in carcass and meat quality traits.

23881681	Genome-wide association study of concentrations of iron and other minerals in longissimus muscle of Angus cattle. The objective of this study was to characterize variation and identify SNP and chromosomal regions associated with mineral concentrations in LM of Angus beef cattle. Samples of LM from 2,285 Angus cattle were obtained, and concentrations of 7 minerals, including iron, magnesium, manganese, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, and zinc, were quantified. Genomic DNA extracted from the ground beef sample used for mineral composition was genotyped with the Bovine SNP50 Infinium  II BeadChip, and effects of SNP on each trait were estimated using the Bayes-C module of GenSel software. Pedigree-based estimates of heritabilities and corresponding genetic variances indicate iron was the only mineral concentration  that could be considered a good candidate for manipulation by genomic selection.  The amount of variation that could be accounted for by SNP genotypes was concordant with pedigree-based heritabilities and varied from very low for potassium and sodium (<0.09) to medium high (0.37) for iron. Although significant chromosomal regions were identified for all minerals analyzed in this study, further study focused on iron. Seven regions on 6 chromosomes (1, 2, 7, 10, 15, and 28) were identified to have a major effect on the iron content of LM in Angus cattle. The accuracy of direct genomic values (DGV) for iron concentration was estimated using a 5-fold cross-validation strategy. The accuracy of DGV estimated as the genetic correlation between DGV and the phenotype (iron concentration) adjusted for contemporary groups was 0.59. A bivariate animal model was used to estimate genetic correlations between iron concentrations and a reduced set of economically important carcass traits: HCW, rib eye area, calculated USDA yield grade, percent KPH, and marbling score. The genetic correlations between iron concentration and HCW, percentage KPH, marbling score, and rib eye area were small (-0.19 to 0.15) and nonsignificant. Although still weak (0.22), a positive  significant genetic correlation was identified between iron content and USDA calculated yield grade. Beef is a major contributor of iron and zinc in the human diet, and this study found that iron content might be effectively manipulated through marker-assisted selection programs, without compromising other carcass and palatability traits.

23884762	Effects of polymorphisms in the bovine growth differentiation factor 9 gene on sperm quality in Holstein bulls. Members of the transforming growth factor- (TGF) superfamily are critical regulators of germ cell development that act as extracellular ligands of the signal transduction pathways regulating proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and other aspects of cell behavior. Growth differentiation factor 9 (GDF9) is a member of the TGF superfamily that plays a critical role in ovarian  follicular development and ovulation rate in females; however, its role in the testis has not been well elucidated. Therefore, in this study we investigated the effects of GDF9 mutations on the quality of fresh and frozen semen of Holstein bulls. Two reported single nucleotide polymorphisms of GDF9, A485TA and A625C, were analyzed in 129 Holstein bulls. Analysis of variance revealed that the A485T polymorphism had significant effects on the acrosome integrity rate (P < 0.05), whereas the A625T polymorphism was significantly associated with sperm concentration (P < 0.05). In addition, a significant additive effect on sperm concentration was detected for the A485T polymorphism (P < 0.05), whereas the polymorphisms A485TA and A625C had significant dominant effects on acrosome integrity rate and sperm motility in frozen semen, respectively (P < 0.05). This  study is the first to show a significant association of GDF9 with sperm quality traits, and the results implied that GDF9 is involved in the initiation or maintenance of spermatogenesis; however, further verification is needed.

23900197	Assessment of association between variants and haplotypes of the IGF2 gene in beef cattle. Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) is a fetal growth and differentiation factor  that plays an important role in muscle growth and in myoblast proliferation and differentiation. The aim of this study was to examine the association of the IGF2 polymorphism with growth traits in beef cattle breed. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs: 1-4) were identified in the bovine IGF2 by sequencing pooled DNA samples (Pool-Seq) and forced polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment  length polymorphism (Forced PCR-RFLP) methods. The result of haplotype analysis of four SNPs showed that eight haplotypes and eighteen combined genotypes were revealed, and the linkage disequilibrium and evolutionary relationship were assessed in 1522 individuals representing four purebred cattle breeds from China. The statistical analyses indicated that the 4 SNPs and 18 combined genotypes or haplotypes are associated with the body weight at 18 and 24 months in Jiaxian cattle population (P<0.05 or P<0.01). Our results provide evidence that polymorphisms in the IGF2 gene are associated with growth traits, and may be used for marker-assisted selection in beef cattle breeding program.

23904513	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate genes associated with fertilizing ability of sperm and subsequent embryonic development in cattle. Fertilization and development of the preimplantation embryo is under genetic control. The present goal was to test 434 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)  for association with genetic variation in fertilization and early embryonic development. The approach was to produce embryos from 93 bulls using in vitro procedures (n = 3-6 replicates per bull) and relate cleavage rate (CR) and development of cleaved embryos to the blastocyst stage (BDRC) to the genotype for each SNP. Bulls were selected to have either high or low estimates for predicted  transmitted ability for daughter pregnancy rate (DPR), an estimate of female fertility. The repeatability was 0.84 for CR and 0.55 for BDRC. Semen extender affected CR, with lower results for milk extender than yolk extender. There was no significant correlation between DPR and either CR or BDRC. A total of 100 SNPs had a minor allele frequency sufficiently high (>5%) to allow association analysis. There were nine genes with SNPs associated with CR (AVP, DEPP, EPAS1, HSD17B6, NT5E, SERPINE2, SLC18A2, TBC1D24, and a noncharacterized gene) and 12 genes with SNPs associated with BDRC (C1QB, FAM5C, HSPA1A, IRF9, MON1B, PARM1, PCCB, PMM2, SLC18A2, TBC1D24, TTLL3, and WBP1). Results demonstrate that in vitro fertilization and blastocyst development are under genetic control and point out  the potential importance of some previously unknown genes in these processes. Selection of cattle based on the genotype at one or more of these 19 loci may prove useful in conjunction with other genetic markers for improving genetic ability for fertility.

23935954	Genome-wide association mapping for identification of quantitative trait loci for rectal temperature during heat stress in Holstein cattle. Heat stress compromises production, fertility, and health of dairy cattle. One mitigation strategy is to select individuals that are genetically resistant to heat stress. Most of the negative effects of heat stress on animal performance are a consequence of either physiological adaptations to regulate body temperature or adverse consequences of failure to regulate body temperature. Thus, selection for regulation of body temperature during heat stress could increase thermotolerance. The objective was to perform a genome-wide association  study (GWAS) for rectal temperature (RT) during heat stress in lactating Holstein cows and identify SNPs associated with genes that have large effects on RT. Records on afternoon RT where the temperature-humidity index was 78.2 were obtained from 4,447 cows sired by 220 bulls, resulting in 1,440 useable genotypes from the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip with 39,759 SNP. For GWAS, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 10 adjacent SNP were averaged to identify consensus genomic regions associated with RT. The largest proportion of SNP variance (0.07 to 0.44%) was explained by  markers flanking the region between 28,877,547 and 28,907,154 bp on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 24. That region is flanked by U1 (28,822,883 to 28,823,043) and NCAD (28,992,666 to 29,241,119). In addition, the SNP at 58,500,249 bp on BTA 16  explained 0.08% and 0.11% of the SNP variance for 2- and 3-SNP analyses, respectively. That contig includes SNORA19, RFWD2 and SCARNA3. Other SNPs associated with RT were located on BTA 16 (close to CEP170 and PLD5), BTA 5 (near SLCO1C1 and PDE3A), BTA 4 (near KBTBD2 and LSM5), and BTA 26 (located in GOT1, a  gene implicated in protection from cellular stress). In conclusion, there are QTL for RT in heat-stressed dairy cattle. These SNPs could prove useful in genetic selection and for identification of genes involved in physiological responses to  heat stress.

23965384	Associations between DGAT1, FABP4, LEP, RORC, and SCD1 gene polymorphisms and fat deposition in Spanish commercial beef. The objective of the present study was to assess the frequency distribution of markers in the diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), leptin (LEP), retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C (RORC), and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD1) genes in a Spanish commercial crossbred population (n = 286) produced in southwest Spain. We have also evaluated the association of these 5 major SNP with backfat thickness (BFT) and intramuscular fat (IMF) to use them routinely in the industry (if the associations are confirmed) due to their ease of use. The KK genotype of the DGAT1 gene was associated (P = 0.046) with the greatest BFT value. Bulls presenting the GG genotype for SNP in the FABP4 gene showed greater values for the percentage of IMF (P = 0.030), which means an increase of 0.155% IMF per copy of the G allele of this marker (P = 0.009). A significant association was found between the RORC: g.3290T > G marker and the percentage of IMF. The GG genotype of the RORC: g.3290T > G marker showed the lowest IMF percentage (P = 0.025). The specific associations found in this study not only provide information about the involvement of these genes in the fat deposition at different levels in the southwestern Spain cattle population, but can also serve as a tool to improve certain meat quality attributes through Marker Assisted Selection. However, sensory studies are needed to explore further the usefulness of these genes in meat quality and the impact on the actual palatability of the beef.

24004543	Novel polymorphisms of the APOA2 gene and its promoter region affect body traits  in cattle. Apolipoprotein A-II (APOA2) is one of the major constituents of high-density lipoprotein and plays a critical role in lipid metabolism and obesity. However, similar research for the bovine APOA2 gene is lacking. In this study, polymorphisms of the bovine APOA2 gene and its promoter region were detected in 1021 cows from four breeds by sequencing and PCR-RFLP methods. Totally, we detected six novel mutations which included one mutation in the promoter region,  two mutations in the exons and three mutations in the introns. There were four polymorphisms within APOA2 gene were analyzed. The allele A, T, T and G frequencies of the four loci were predominant in the four breeds when in separate or combinations analysis which suggested cows with those alleles to be more adapted to the steppe environment. The association analysis indicated three SVs in Nangyang cows, two SVs in Qinchun cows and the 9 haplotypes in Nangyang cows were significantly associated with body traits (P<0.05 or P<0.01). The results of this study suggested the bovine APOA2 gene may be a strong candidate gene for body traits in the cattle breeding program.

24015912	Effect of FASN gene on milk yield and milk composition in the Chinese Holstein dairy population. Fatty acid synthase (FASN) is a multifunctional protein that catalyzes de novo synthesis of fatty acids in cells. It plays a key role in the lipid biosynthesis  as well as in the general metabolism of all living animals. We herein investigated polymorphisms of FASN. As a result, six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found and then genotyped in 752 Chinese Holstein cows.  It was found that g.17924A>G was non-synonymous, g.13965 C>T, g.16907 T>C and g.18663T>C were synonymous mutations and two other two SNPs, g.8948 C>T (ss491228481) and g.14439T>C (rs133498277), were in intronic sequences of the gene. All such identified SNPs were found to be associated with milk yield and composition traits (P=0.0441 to <0.0001). Significant additive and allele substitution effects were observed for three yield traits at all six loci as well (P<0.05 to <0.01). Complete linkage disequilibrium among the five SNPs, with the exception of g.8948 C>T, was observed.

24024930	Genome-wide association analyses for carcass quality in crossbred beef cattle. BACKGROUND: Genetic improvement of beef quality will benefit both producers and consumers, and can be achieved by selecting animals that carry desired quantitative trait nucleotides (QTN), which result from intensive searches using  genetic markers. This paper presents a genome-wide association approach utilizing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip to seek genomic regions that potentially harbor genes or QTN underlying variation in carcass quality of beef cattle.This study used 747 genotyped animals, mainly crossbred, with phenotypes on twelve carcass quality traits, including hot carcass weight (HCW), back fat thickness (BF), Longissimus dorsi muscle area or ribeye area (REA), marbling scores (MRB), lean yield grade by Beef Improvement Federation formulae (BIFYLD), steak tenderness by Warner-Bratzler shear force 7-day post-mortem (LM7D) as well as body composition as determined by partial rib (IMPS 103) dissection presented as a percentage of total rib weight including body cavity fat (BDFR), lean (LNR), bone (BNR), intermuscular fat (INFR), subcutaneous fat (SQFR), and total fat (TLFR). RESULTS: At the genome wide level false discovery rate (FDR<10%), eight SNP were found significantly associated with HCW. Seven of these SNP were located on  Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 6. At a less stringent significance level (P<0.001),  520 SNP were found significantly associated with mostly individual traits (473 SNP), and multiple traits (47 SNP). Of these significant SNP, 48 were located on  BTA6, and 22 of them were in association with hot carcass weight. There were 53 SNP associated with percentage of rib bone, and 12 of them were on BTA20. The rest of the significant SNP were scattered over other chromosomes. They accounted for 1.90 - 5.89% of the phenotypic variance of the traits. A region of approximately 4 Mbp long on BTA6 was found to be a potential area to harbor candidate genes influencing growth. One marker on BTA25 accounting for 2.67% of the variation in LM7D may be worth further investigation for the improvement of beef tenderness. CONCLUSION: This study provides useful information to further assist the identification of chromosome regions and subsequently genes affecting carcass quality traits in beef cattle. It also revealed many SNP that acted pleiotropically to affect carcass quality. This knowledge is important in selecting subsets of SNP to improve the performance of beef cattle.

24029076	A critical functional missense mutation (H173R) in the bovine PROP1 gene significantly affects growth traits in cattle. The PROP1 protein, encoded by the prophet of Pit-1 (PROP1) gene, exhibits both DNA-binding and transcriptional activation abilities. Its expression leads to the ontogenesis of growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), thyroid-stimulating hormone  (TSH), and pituitary hormone. The missense mutation H173R in PROP1 may result in  deficiencies of GH, PRL, TSH, and Pit-1, thereby affecting growth traits. The objective of this study was to characterize the H173R mutation within the PROP1 gene and examine its associations with growth traits in cattle. Accordingly, the  H173R mutation was genotyped in 1207 cows belonging to five Chinese native breeds. Three genotypes were identified among the specimens, with genotype AA being the major one. Consequently, the "G" allele was the minor allele. Association testing revealed that the H173R mutation was significantly associated with body weight, average daily weight gain and physical parameters in the analyzed breeds. Interestingly, the cows with genotype AG and/or AA had superior  growth traits compared with those expressing the GG genotype, in all tested breeds. These findings revealed that the "A" allele had positive effects on growth traits, which was consistent with the increasing binding ability and enhanced activation capacity associated with the bovine isoform PROP1-173H, representing the "A" allele. Therefore, the H173R mutation can be considered as a DNA marker for selecting individuals with superior growth traits, thereby contributing to research on breeding and genetics in the beef industry.

24076131	Genetic variants in BMP8B gene are associated with growth traits in Chinese native cattle. As a signaling molecule, bone morphogenetic protein 8B (BMP8B) plays an essential role in bone metabolism and is able to regulate thermogenesis and energy balance, which suggests that BMP8B gene may be a new candidate for growth traits. Here, to characterize the effects of BMP8B gene on growth traits, we first used three Chinese indigenous cattle breeds (n=845) to detect single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Five novel SNPs of BMP8B gene (g.-242C>T, g.2164C>T, g.2639T>C, g.2900C>G and g.10817C>T) were identified by DNA pool sequencing and forced PCR-RFLP. And then we associated the five SNPs with four growth traits (body weight, body length, heart girth, and hucklebone width). Results from association analysis showed that the SNPs 1, 2, and 3 affected growth trait(s) markedly (P<0.05). Further, 6 combined haplotypes were constructed to guarantee the reliability of analysis results. There were also significant differences in body length, heart girth and body weight between the 6 combined haplotypes (P<0.05), but not in hucklebone width (P>0.05). Collectively, our results suggest a modulatory role of BMP8B gene in cattle growth and development, and 3 SNPs could be used as molecular markers in early marker assisted selection (MAS) in beef cattle breeding program.

24085429	Molecular cloning, polymorphisms, and association analysis of the promoter region of the STAM2 gene in Wuchuan Black cattle. The STAM protein plays an important role in the cytokine-related JAK/STAT pathway. We selected the STAM2 gene as a candidate gene that could be linked to growth performance in analysis of a Chinese cattle breed (Wuchuan Black cattle).  We examined genetic variants in the promoter region of the STAM2 gene and their associations with eight growth traits in 159 individuals. Seven SNPs, which included six new SNPs for the SNP database, were found. The core promoter region  was identified with a bioinformatic software. This analysis also showed that the  SNPs have a significant influence on the function and structure of the STAM2 promoter in terms of RNA secondary structure, CpG island, and transcription factor binding sites. Association analysis demonstrated that G-102A is significantly associated with withers height, heart girth, cannon circumference,  chest width, and hip height in this population, which leads us to suggest that G-102A is a useful SNP marker for cattle growth performance. Animals with the genotype AA had higher mean values for withers height, cannon circumference, chest width, and hip height than those with GG and AG genotypes. This SNP of the  STAM2 gene could be applied in marker-assisted selection for improving growth performance in cattle.

24116007	Genome-wide association study identifies major loci for carcass weight on BTA14 in Hanwoo (Korean cattle). This genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted to identify major loci that are significantly associated with carcass weight, and their effects, in order to provide increased understanding of the genetic architecture of carcass weight in Hanwoo. This genome-wide association study identified one major chromosome region ranging from 23 Mb to 25 Mb on chromosome 14 as being associated with carcass weight in Hanwoo. Significant Bonferroni-corrected genome-wide associations (P<1.5210(-6)) were detected for 6 Single Nucleotide Polymorphic (SNP) loci for carcass weight on chromosome 14. The most significant  SNP was BTB-01280026 (P=4.0210(-11)), located in the 25 Mb region on Bos taurus autosome 14 (BTA14). The other 5 significant SNPs were Hapmap27934-BTC-065223 (P=4.0410(-11)) in 25.2 Mb, BTB-01143580 (P=6.3510(-11)) in 24.3 Mb, Hapmap30932-BTC-011225 (P=5.9210(-10)) in 24.8  Mb, Hapmap27112-BTC-063342 (P=5.1810(-9)) in 25.4 Mb, and Hapmap24414-BTC-073009 (P=7.3810(-8)) in 25.4 Mb, all on BTA 14. One SNP (BTB-01143580; P=6.3510(-11)) lies independently from the other 5 SNPs. The 5  SNPs that lie together showed a large Linkage disequilibrium (LD) block (block size of 553 kb) with LD coefficients ranging from 0.53 to 0.89 within the block.  The most significant SNPs accounted for 6.73% to 10.55% of additive genetic variance, which is quite a large proportion of the total additive genetic variance. The most significant SNP (BTB-01280026; P=4.0210(-11)) had 16.96 kg  of allele substitution effect, and the second most significant SNP (Hapmap27934-BTC-065223; P=4.0410(-11)) had 18.06 kg of effect on carcass weight, which correspond to 44% and 47%, respectively, of the phenotypic standard deviation for carcass weight in Hanwoo cattle. Our results demonstrated that carcass weight was affected by a major Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) with a large effect and by many SNPs with small effects that are normally distributed.

24144840	Association between JY-1 gene polymorphisms and reproductive traits in beef cattle. Reproductive traits have a high economic value and it is interesting to include them in the selection objectives of an animal breeding program. These traits generally show low heritability and molecular markers may therefore be used in genetic evaluations to improve the accuracy of predictions. The JY-1 gene is expressed in the oocyte and it is associated with folliculogenesis and early embryo development. It has been suggested to affect reproductive traits. In this  study, exons 1 and 2 of the JY-1 gene were studied in 385 Nellore females by PCR-sequencing. Seventeen polymorphisms were identified. After analysis of linkage disequilibrium, association tests were performed between eight SNPs and the occurrence of early pregnancy, age at first calving, days to calving, and reconception of primiparous heifers. Seven SNPs were significant for three traits. The most significant was chr29:12,999 T/A (p=0.003) which was associated  with the occurrence of early pregnancy. This SNP might be involved in protein translation inhibition since it affects the initial methionine codon. The JY-1, an oocyte specific gene, influences reproductive traits; further studies investigating other regions of the gene or other genes expressed in tissues of the female reproductive system would be interesting to be performed.

24156620	Genome-wide association and prediction of direct genomic breeding values for composition of fatty acids in Angus beef cattle. BACKGROUND: As consumers continue to request food products that have health advantages, it will be important for the livestock industry to supply a product that meet these demands. One such nutrient is fatty acids, which have been implicated as playing a role in cardiovascular disease. Therefore, the objective  of this study was to determine the extent to which molecular markers could account for variation in fatty acid composition of skeletal muscle and identify genomic regions that harbor genetic variation. RESULTS: Subsets of markers on the Illumina 54K bovine SNPchip were able to account for up to 57% of the variance observed in fatty acid composition. In addition, these markers could be used to calculate a direct genomic breeding values (DGV) for a given fatty acids with an accuracy (measured as simple correlations between DGV and phenotype) ranging from -0.06 to 0.57. Furthermore,  57 1-Mb regions were identified that were associated with at least one fatty acid with a posterior probability of inclusion greater than 0.90. 1-Mb regions on BTA19, BTA26 and BTA29, which harbored fatty acid synthase, Sterol-CoA desaturase and thyroid hormone responsive candidate genes, respectively, explained a high percentage of genetic variance in more than one fatty acid. It was also observed  that the correlation between DGV for different fatty acids at a given 1-Mb window ranged from almost 1 to -1. CONCLUSIONS: Further investigations are needed to identify the causal variants harbored within the identified 1-Mb windows. For the first time, Angus breeders have a tool whereby they could select for altered fatty acid composition. Furthermore, these reported results could improve our understanding of the biology of fatty acid metabolism and deposition.

24183684	Genetic and genomic dissection of dry matter intake at different lactation stages in primiparous Holstein cows. Dry matter intake (DMI) and feed efficiency are economically relevant traits. Simultaneous selection for low DMI and high milk yield might improve feed efficiency, but bears the risk of aggravating the negative energy balance and related health problems in early lactation. Lactation stage-specific selection might provide a possibility to optimize the trajectory of DMI across days in milk (DIM), but requires in-depth knowledge about genetic parameters within and across lactation stages. Within the current study, daily heritabilities and genetic correlations between DMI records from different lactation stages were estimated using random regression models based on 910 primiparous Holstein cows. The heritability estimates from DIM 11 to 180 follow a slightly parabolic curve varying from 0.26 (DIM 121) to 0.37 (DIM 11 and 180). Genetic correlations estimated between DIM 11, 30, 80, 130, and 180 were all positive, ranging from 0.29 (DIM 11 and 180) to 0.97 (DIM 11 and 30; i.e., the correlations are inversely related to the length of the interval between compared DIM). Deregressed estimated breeding values for the same lactation days were used as phenotypes in sequential genome-wide association studies using 681 cows drawn from the study population and genotyped for the Illumina SNP50 BeadChip (Illumina Inc., San Diego, CA). A total of 21 SNP on 10 chromosomes exceeded the chromosome-wise significance threshold for at least 1 analyzed DIM, pointing to some interesting candidate genes directly involved in the regulation of feed intake. Association signals were restricted to certain lactation stages, thus supporting the genetic correlations. Partitioning the explained variance onto chromosomes revealed a large contribution of Bos taurus autosome 7 not harboring  any associated marker in the current study. The results contribute to the knowledge about the genetic architecture of the complex phenotype DMI and might provide valuable information for future selection efforts.

24200570	A new single nucleotide polymorphism in the calpastatin (CAST) gene associated with beef tenderness. First we looked for putative causative mutations in the CAST and CAPN1 genes associated with meat tenderness and found a total of 31 and 7 polymorphisms, respectively, in the Parda de Montaa and Pirenaica breeds. Tenderness was not affected by mutations in CAPN1. However, three SNPs located at intron 5 (BTA7: g.98533962C>G on UMD 3.0), exon 7 (g.98535683A>G) and intron 12 (g.98545188T>A) of the CAST gene were significantly associated with meat tenderness at 7 days post-mortem in the Parda de Montaa breed. The haplotypes h2 and h5 showed significant associations with meat toughness being consistent with the SNP association results, which showed that the g.98535683A>G SNP in CAST might be the causative mutation of the effect found in this study. This mutation changes the amino acid sequence at position p.Thr182Ala (NM_174003). This amino acid substitution could affect the interacting regions between the calpastatin L-domain and calpain, and then could generate a more stable union between calpain and calpastatin.

24205251	Bivariate genome-wide association analysis of the growth and intake components of feed efficiency. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with average daily gain (ADG) and dry matter intake (DMI), two major components of feed efficiency in cattle, were identified in a genome-wide association study (GWAS). Uni- and multi-SNP models were used to describe feed efficiency in a training data set and the results were confirmed in a validation data set. Results from the univariate and  bivariate analyses of ADG and DMI, adjusted by the feedlot beef steer maintenance requirements, were compared. The bivariate uni-SNP analysis identified (P-value <0.0001) 11 SNPs, meanwhile the univariate analyses of ADG and DMI identified 8 and 9 SNPs, respectively. Among the six SNPs confirmed in the validation data set, five SNPs were mapped to KDELC2, PHOX2A, and TMEM40. Findings from the uni-SNP models were used to develop highly accurate predictive multi-SNP models in the training data set. Despite the substantially smaller size of the validation data set, the training multi-SNP models had slightly lower predictive  ability when applied to the validation data set. Six Gene Ontology molecular functions related to ion transport activity were enriched (P-value <0.001) among  the genes associated with the detected SNPs. The findings from this study demonstrate the complementary value of the uni- and multi-SNP models, and univariate and bivariate GWAS analyses. The identified SNPs can be used for genome-enabled improvement of feed efficiency in feedlot beef cattle, and can aid in the design of empirical studies to further confirm the associations.

24265800	Genome wide analysis of fertility and production traits in Italian Holstein cattle. A genome wide scan was performed on a total of 2093 Italian Holstein proven bulls genotyped with 50K single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), with the objective of  identifying loci associated with fertility related traits and to test their effects on milk production traits. The analysis was carried out using estimated breeding values for the aggregate fertility index and for each trait contributing to the index: angularity, calving interval, non-return rate at 56 days, days to first service, and 305 day first parity lactation. In addition, two production traits not included in the aggregate fertility index were analysed: fat yield and protein yield. Analyses were carried out using all SNPs treated separately, further the most significant marker on BTA14 associated to milk quality located in the DGAT1 region was treated as fixed effect. Genome wide association analysis identified 61 significant SNPs and 75 significant marker-trait associations. Eight additional SNP associations were detected when SNP located near DGAT1 was included as a fixed effect. As there were no obvious common SNPs between the traits analyzed independently in this study, a network analysis was carried out to identify unforeseen relationships that may link production and fertility traits.

24303892	Identification of quantitative trait loci affecting gastrointestinal parasite resistance in an experimental Angus population. DNA markers associated with quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting host tolerance to gastrointestinal (GI) parasite infection are ideal targets for marker-assisted selection. However, few studies in cattle have attempted to identify this type of QTL due to the difficulty of generating accurate phenotypic data from a resource population with adequate statistical power for detection. For this effort, we amassed fecal egg count (FEC) measures from annual natural field challenges with GI nematodes that spanned 12 different contemporary groups  of Angus calves (1992-2000) derived from a closed breeding population. FEC and blood pepsinogen measures were taken weekly over a 26-week period post-weaning, and the FEC data were Box-Cox transformed to normalize the distribution of phenotypes. These 305 test animals and more than 100 founding animals from the extended pedigree were genotyped across 190 microsatellites markers. The genome-wide analyses identified a suggestive genome-wide QTL on bovine chromosome (Chr) 8 (P<0.002) and nominal QTL on Chr 4, 12 and 17 (P<0.05). These findings were unique for cattle, and some corresponded to previously identified QTL locations for parasite-related traits in sheep to provide genome locations for further fine mapping of parasite resistance/susceptibility in Angus cattle.

24303986	Polymorphisms in calpastatin and mu-calpain genes are associated with beef iron content. The objective of this study was to assess the association of markers in the calpastatin and mu-calpain loci with iron in beef cattle muscle. The population consisted of 259 cross-bred steers from Beefmaster, Brangus, Bonsmara, Romosinuano, Hereford and Angus sires. Total iron and heme iron concentrations were measured. Markers in the calpastatin (referred to as CAST) and mu-calpain (referred to as CAPN4751) genes were used to assess their association with iron levels. The mean and standard error for iron and heme iron content in the population was 35.61.3g and 27.11.4g respectively. Significant associations (P<0.01) of markers were observed for both iron and heme iron content. For CAST, animals with the CC genotype had higher levels of iron and heme iron in longissimus dorsi muscle. For CAPN4751, individuals with the TT genotype had higher concentrations of iron and heme iron than did animals with the CC and CT genotypes. Genotypes known to be associated with tougher meat were  associated with higher levels of iron concentration.

24308668	A genome-wide association study reveals a quantitative trait locus for age at first calving in delta/notch-like EGF repeat containing on chromosome 2 in Japanese Black cattle. Age at first calving (AFC) is an important trait for achieving earlier reproductive performance in cattle. To identify quantitative trait loci for AFC in Japanese Black cattle, we conducted a genome-wide association study using 866  animals with extreme AFC values selected from a larger group of 52, 009 animals.  We identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on bovine chromosome 2 that  were associated with AFC. These SNPs were located within 112.8-kbp intronic region of delta/notch-like EGF repeat containing (DNER) and proved to be in a state of high linkage disequilibrium. The association was replicated in an independent sample of 2963 animals. In the replicated population, the frequency of the reduced AFC allele (Q) was 0.463, and the allele accounts for 8% of the total genetic variance. The effect of allele substitution on AFC was a decrease of 11.54 days. The results suggest that the Q allele could serve as a useful marker in Japanese Black cattle to select animals with superior AFC performance.

24315323	Fine mapping of a quantitative trait locus for bovine milk fat composition on Bos taurus autosome 19. A major quantitative trait locus (QTL) for milk fat content and fatty acids in both milk and adipose tissue has been detected on Bos taurus autosome 19 (BTA19)  in several cattle breeds. The objective of this study was to refine the location  of the QTL on BTA19 for bovine milk fat composition using a denser set of markers. Opportunities for fine mapping were provided by imputation from 50,000 genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) toward a high-density SNP panel with up to 777,000 SNP. The QTL region was narrowed down to a linkage disequilibrium block formed by 22 SNP covering 85,007 bp, from 51,303,322 to 51,388,329 bp on BTA19. This linkage disequilibrium block contained 2 genes: coiled-coil domain containing 57 (CCDC57) and fatty acid synthase (FASN). The gene CCDC57 is minimally characterized and has not been associated with bovine milk fat previously, but is expressed in the mammary gland. The gene FASN has been associated with bovine milk fat and fat in adipose tissue before. This gene  is a likely candidate for the QTL on BTA19 because of its involvement in de novo  fat synthesis. Future studies using sequence data of both CCDC57 and FASN, and eventually functional studies, will have to be pursued to assign the causal variant(s).

24320212	Genetic association between NOD2 polymorphism and infection status by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis in German Holstein cattle. The aim of the study was the analysis of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2, formerly CARD15) as a candidate gene for Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis infection in cattle. Eleven SNPs in the NOD2 gene were identified, and finally, four SNPs were included in a case-control study using 324 German Holstein cows tested for paratuberculosis using fecal culture and ELISA. The SNP (GenBank) AY518738S04:g.521G>A in exon 4 showed a significant  association between the fecal culture status of the animals and NOD2 allele variants. The other three SNPs showed no associations in German Holstein cows.

24333857	Association analysis of bovine Foxa2 gene single sequence variant and haplotype combinations with growth traits in Chinese cattle. Forkhead box A2 (Foxa2) has been recognized as one of the most potent transcriptional activators that is implicated in the control of feeding behavior  and energy homeostasis. However, similar researches about the effects of genetic  variations of Foxa2 gene on growth traits are lacking. Therefore, this study detected Foxa2 gene polymorphisms by DNA pool sequencing, PCR-RFLP and PCR-ACRS methods in 822 individuals from three Chinese cattle breeds. The results showed that four sequence variants (SVs) were screened, including two mutations (SV1, g. 7005 C>T and SV2, g. 7044 C>G) in intron 4, one mutation (SV3, g. 8449 A>G) in exon 5 and one mutation (SV4, g. 8537 T>C) in the 3'UTR. Notably, association analysis of the single mutations with growth traits in total individuals (at 24months) revealed that significant statistical difference was found in four SVs, and SV4 locus was highly significantly associated with growth traits throughout all three breeds (P<0.05 or P<0.01). Meanwhile, haplotype combination CCCCAGTC also indicated remarkably associated to better chest girth and body weight in Jiaxian Red cattle (P<0.05). We herein described a comprehensive study on the variability of bovine Foxa2 gene that was predictive of molecular markers in cattle breeding for the first time.

24341352	Genome wide association studies for body conformation traits in the Chinese Holstein cattle population. BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association study (GWAS) is a powerful tool for revealing the genetic basis of quantitative traits. However, studies using GWAS for conformation traits of cattle is comparatively less. This study aims to use GWAS  to find the candidates genes for body conformation traits. RESULTS: The Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip was used to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are associated with body conformation traits. A least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) was applied to detect multiple  SNPs simultaneously for 29 body conformation traits with 1,314 Chinese Holstein cattle and 52,166 SNPs. Totally, 59 genome-wide significant SNPs associated with  26 conformation traits were detected by genome-wide association analysis; five SNPs were within previously reported QTL regions (Animal Quantitative Trait Loci  (QTL) database) and 11 were very close to the reported SNPs. Twenty-two SNPs were located within annotated gene regions, while the remainder were 0.6-826 kb away from known genes. Some of the genes had clear biological functions related to conformation traits. By combining information about the previously reported QTL regions and the biological functions of the genes, we identified DARC, GAS1, MTPN, HTR2A, ZNF521, PDIA6, and TMEM130 as the most promising candidate genes for capacity and body depth, chest width, foot angle, angularity, rear leg side view, teat length, and animal size traits, respectively. We also found four SNPs that affected four pairs of traits, and the genetic correlation between each pair of traits ranged from 0.35 to 0.86, suggesting that these SNPs may have a pleiotropic effect on each pair of traits. CONCLUSIONS: A total of 59 significant SNPs associated with 26 conformation traits were identified in the Chinese Holstein population. Six promising candidate genes were suggested, and four SNPs showed genetic correlation for four pairs of traits.

24361557	Effect of polymorphisms in candidate genes on carcass and meat quality traits in  double muscled Piemontese cattle. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between 10 candidate genes and carcass weight and conformation, carcass daily gain, and meat quality (pH, color, cooking loss, drip loss and shear force) in 990 double-muscled Piemontese young bulls. Animals were genotyped at each of the following genes: growth hormone, growth hormone receptor, pro-opiomelanocortin, pro-opiomelanocortin class 1 homeobox 1, melanocortin-4 receptor, corticotrophin-releasing hormone, diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase-1, thyroglobulin, carboxypeptidase E and gamma-3 regulatory subunit of the AMP-activated protein kinase. All the investigated SNPs had additive effects which were relevant for at least one of the traits. Relevant associations between the investigated SNPs and carcass weight, carcass daily gain and carcass conformation were detected, whereas associations of SNPs with meat quality were moderate. Results confirmed some of previously reported associations, but diverged for others. Validation in other cattle breeds is required to use these SNPs in gene-assisted selection programs for enhancement of carcass traits and meat quality.

24362770	Beef cattle body temperature during climatic stress: a genome-wide association study. Cattle are reared in diverse environments and collecting phenotypic body temperature (BT) measurements to characterize BT variation across diverse environments is difficult and expensive. To better understand the genetic basis of BT regulation, a genome-wide association study was conducted utilizing crossbred steers and heifers totaling 239 animals of unknown pedigree and breed fraction. During predicted extreme heat and cold stress events, hourly tympanic and vaginal BT devices were placed in steers and heifers, respectively. Individuals were genotyped with the BovineSNP50K_v2 assay and data analyzed using Bayesian models for area under the curve (AUC), a measure of BT over time, using  hourly BT observations summed across 5-days (AUC summer 5-day (AUCS5D) and AUC winter 5-day (AUCW5D)). Posterior heritability estimates were moderate to high and were estimated to be 0.68 and 0.21 for AUCS5D and AUCW5D, respectively. Moderately positive correlations between direct genomic values for AUCS5D and AUCW5D (0.40) were found, although a small percentage of the top 5% 1-Mb windows  were in common. Different sets of genes were associated with BT during winter and summer, thus simultaneous selection for animals tolerant to both heat and cold appears possible.

24386238	A post-GWAS replication study confirming the PTK2 gene associated with milk production traits in Chinese Holstein. Our initial genome-wide association study (GWAS) demonstrated that two SNPs (ARS-BFGL-NGS-33248, UA-IFASA-9288) within the protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2) gene were significantly associated with milk production traits in Chinese Holstein dairy cattle. To further validate if the statistical evidence provided in GWAS were true-positive findings, a replication study was performed herein through genotype-phenotype associations. The two tested SNPs were found to show significant associations with milk production traits, which confirmed the associations observed in the original study. Specifically, SNPs lying in the PTK2 gene were also detected by sequencing 14 unrelated sires in Chinese Holsteins and a total of thirty-three novel SNPs were identified. Thirteen out of these identified SNPs were genotyped and tested for association with milk production traits in an independent resource population. After Bonferroni correction for multiple testing, twelve SNPs were statistically significant for more than two milk production traits. Analyses of pairwise D' measures of linkage disequilibrium (LD) between all SNPs were also explored. Two haplotype blocks were inferred and the association study at haplotype level revealed similar effects on milk production traits. In addition, the RNA expression analyses revealed that a non-synonymous coding SNP (g.4061098T>G) was involved in the regulation of gene expression. Thus the findings presented here provide strong evidence for associations of PTK2 variants with dairy production traits and may be applied in Chinese Holstein breeding program.

24393710	Bovine CLEC7A genetic variants and their association with seropositivity in Johne's disease ELISA. Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) infection in cattle causes significant economic losses to the dairy and beef industries resulting from reduced productivity, premature culling and mortality. Bovine Dectin-1, an important pattern recognition molecule that is able to generate a proinflammatory response by acting alongside Toll like receptor (TLR) signaling, is known to co-operate with TLR2 to specifically activate a macrophage proinflammatory response against mycobacterial infections. Therefore, the goal of this study was  to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the gene encoding bovine Dectin-1 (CLEC7A) and to assess their association with susceptibility to MAP infection in dairy cattle. Blood and milk samples, collected from commercial dairy operations, were tested for MAP infection using blood and milk ELISAs and a resource population consisting of 197 infected and 242 healthy cattle was constructed. Pooled DNA was used for sequencing and eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified. Identified SNPs were genotyped on the resource population using the iPLEX MassARRAY system and statistical analysis was performed using logistic regression fitting the additive and dominance effects of each SNP in the model. Out of a total of eight identified SNPs, five were successfully genotyped, and three out of these five SNPs were found to be in complete linkage. Statistical analysis revealed a strong association between a non-synonymous SNP c.589A>G (p=0.008), and MAP infection status of the resource population inferred by seropositivity in MAP antibody specific ELISAs. This SNP c.589A>G was located in the geneic region that encodes the carbohydrate recognition domain of bovine Dectin-1. Therefore, further investigation of its functional relevance is warranted.

24416221	Association of TNP2 gene polymorphisms of the bta-miR-154 target site with the semen quality traits of Chinese Holstein bulls. Transition protein 2 (TNP2) participates in removing nucleohistones and the initial condensation of spermatid nucleus during spermiogenesis. This study investigated the relationship between the variants of the bovine TNP2 gene and the semen quality traits of Chinese Holstein bulls. We detected three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the TNP2 gene in 392 Chinese Holstein bulls, namely, g.269 G>A (exon 1), g.480 C>T (intron 1), and g.1536 C>T (3'-UTR). Association analysis showed that the semen quality traits of the Chinese Holstein bulls was significantly affected by the three SNPs. The bulls with the haplotypic combinations H6H4, H6H6, and H6H8 had higher initial semen motility than those with the H7H8 and H8H4 haplotypic combinations (P<0.05). SNPs in the microRNA (miRNA) binding region of the TNP2 gene 3'-UTR may have contributed to the phenotypic differences. The phenotypic differences are caused by the altered expression of the miRNAs and their targets. Bioinformatics analysis predicted that the g.1536 C>T site in the TNP2 3'-UTR is located in the bta-miR-154 binding region. The quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results showed that  the TNP2 mRNA relative expression in bulls with the CT and CC genotypes was significantly higher than those with the TT genotype (P<0.05) in the g.1536 C>T site. The luciferase assay also indicated that bta-miR-154 directly targets TNP2  in a murine Leydig cell tumor cell line. The SNP g.1536 C>T in the TNP2 3'-UTR, which altered the binding of TNP2 with bta-miR-154, was found to be associated with the semen quality traits of Chinese Holstein bulls.

24428918	Validation of associations for female fertility traits in Nordic Holstein, Nordic Red and Jersey dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: The results obtained from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) often show pronounced disagreements. Validation of association studies is therefore desired before marker information is incorporated in selection decisions. A reliable way to confirm a discovered association between genetic markers and phenotypes is to validate the results in different populations. Therefore, the objective of this study was to validate single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker associations to female fertility traits identified in the Nordic Holstein (NH) cattle population in the Nordic Red (NR) and Jersey (JER) cattle breeds. In the present study, we used data from 3,475 NH sires which were genotyped with the BovineSNP50 Beadchip to discover associations between SNP markers and eight female fertility-related traits. The significant SNP markers were then tested in NR and JER cattle. RESULTS: A total of 4,474 significant associations between SNP markers and eight  female fertility traits were detected in NH cattle. These significant associations were then validated in the NR (4,998 sires) and JER (1,225 sires) dairy cattle populations. We were able to validate 836 of the SNPs discovered in  NH cattle in the NR population, as well as 686 SNPs in the JER population. 152 SNPs could be confirmed in both the NR and JER populations. CONCLUSIONS: The present study presents strong evidence for association of SNPs with fertility traits across three cattle breeds. We provide strong evidence that SNPs for many fertility traits are concentrated at certain areas on the genome (BTA1, BTA4, BTA7, BTA9, BTA11 and BTA13), and these areas would be highly suitable for further study in order to identify candidate genes for female fertility traits in dairy cattle.

24432332	Genetic polymorphisms of leptin and leptin receptor genes in relation with production and reproduction traits in cattle. Leptin and leptin receptor genes are considered as production traits markers in dairy or beef cattle. The aim of this study was to verify the associations of polymorphisms in bovine LEP and LEPR genes with production and reproduction traits in Slovak Spotted and Pinzgau cows. Long-life production was evaluated: milk, protein, and fat yield and reproduction traits: age at first calving, calving interval, days open, and insemination interval. In total, 296 blood samples of Slovak Spotted and 85 hair roots samples of Pinzgau cows were analyzed. In order to detect LEP/Sau3AI (BTA 4, inron 2) and LEPR/T945M (BTA 3, exon 20) genotypes PCR-RFLP method was used. In Slovak Spotted and Pinzgau cows allele frequencies were 0.838/0.162 and 0.694/0.306 for A and B LEP variants, and 0.954/0.046 and 0.912/0.088 for C and T LEPR variants, respectively. For testing  the associations between SNPs LEP/Sau3AI and LEPR/T945M and evaluated traits, the General Linear Model procedure in SAS Software was used. Statistical analysis showed that SNP LEP/Sau3AI significantly affected milk, protein and fat yield (P<0.05), and age at first calving (P<0.01) in analyzed population of cows. Statistically, SNP LEPR/T945M affected significantly calving interval (P<0.01) only. Results of our study suggest that especially leptin is a candidate gene, which influences mainly milk production traits and might be implemented in breeding strategies to improve the production performance of both analyzed cattle breeds.

24456127	Multibreed genome wide association can improve precision of mapping causative variants underlying milk production in dairy cattle. BACKGROUND: Genome wide association studies (GWAS) in most cattle breeds result in large genomic intervals of significant associations making it difficult to identify causal mutations. This is due to the extensive, low-level linkage disequilibrium within a cattle breed. As there is less linkage disequilibrium across breeds, multibreed GWAS may improve precision of causal variant mapping. Here we test this hypothesis in a Holstein and Jersey cattle data set with 17,925 individuals with records for production and functional traits and 632,003 SNP markers. RESULTS: By using a cross validation strategy within the Holstein and Jersey data sets, we were able to identify and confirm a large number of QTL. As expected, the precision of mapping these QTL within the breeds was limited. In the multibreed analysis, we found that many loci were not segregating in both breeds. This was partly an artefact of power of the experiments, with the number of QTL shared between the breeds generally increasing with trait heritability. False discovery rates suggest that the multibreed analysis was less powerful than between breed analyses, in terms of how much genetic variance was explained by the detected QTL. However, the multibreed analysis could more accurately pinpoint the location of the well-described mutations affecting milk production such as DGAT1. Further, the significant SNP in the multibreed analysis were significantly enriched in genes regions, to a considerably greater extent than was observed in  the single breed analyses. In addition, we have refined QTL on BTA5 and BTA19 to  very small intervals and identified a small number of potential candidate genes in these, as well as in a number of other regions. CONCLUSION: Where QTL are segregating across breed, multibreed GWAS can refine these to reasonably small genomic intervals. However, such QTL appear to represent only a fraction of the genetic variation. Our results suggest a significant proportion of QTL affecting milk production segregate within rather than across breeds, at least for Holstein and Jersey cattle.

24462757	Novel polymorphisms of SIX4 gene and their association with body measurement traits in Qinchuan cattle. Sine oculis homeobox homolog 4 (SIX4) gene belongs to the sine oculis/SIX gene family, which includes six members in vertebrates. SIX4 gene plays a crucial role in skeletal myogenesis, and its genetic variations or deficiency may cause hypopituitarism, suggesting that SIX4 gene is a potential candidate gene affecting body measurement traits (BMTs) in animals. Herein, the objectives of this study were to identify genetic polymorphisms of bovine SIX4 gene and to analyze potential association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and  body measurement traits in Qinchuan cattle. In the present study, we investigated polymorphisms of SIX4 gene in 426 Qinchuan cattle using DNA sequencing and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphisms. Three novel  SNPs were identified within bovine SIX4 gene. Associations between body measurement traits and SIX4 gene polymorphisms were investigated, and significant statistical associations were found between polymorphisms of these three SNPs and body measurement traits (P<0.05). Hence, based on results obtained from this study, we conjectured that SIX4 gene may have potential effects on body measurement traits in Qinchuan cattle population and could be used for marker-assisted selection.

24463019	Genetic variations in insulin-like growth factor binding protein acid labile subunit gene associated with growth traits in beef cattle (Bos taurus) in China. The insulin-like growth factor binding protein acid labile subunit (IGFALS) gene  encodes a serum protein that binds to IGFs and regulates growth, development, and other physiological processes. We have found that sequencing of the IGFALS gene in Chinese Qinchuan beef cattle (n=300) revealed four SNP loci in exon two of the gene (g1219: T>C, g1893: T>C, g2612: G>A, and g2696: A>G). The SNP g2696: A>G resulted in a change from asparagine to aspartic acid (p. N574D) in the leucine-rich repeat region in the carboxyl-terminal domain of IGFALS. Four SNPs were in low linkage disequilibrium, and 12 different haplotypes were identified in the population. Association analysis suggested that SNP g1219: T>C had a significant association with hip width (P<0.05) and SNP g2696: A>G displayed a significant association with stature (P<0.05). The results from our investigation indicated that polymorphisms in the IGFALS gene were associated with growth traits of bovine, and may serve as a genetic marker for selection of beef cattle  for growth traits, including stature.

24463020	Linkage disequilibrium and haplotype distribution of the bovine LHX4 gene in relation to growth. LIM homeobox transcription factor 4 (LHX4) is a LIM homeodomain transcription factor involved in pituitary gland and nervous system development. The aim of this study was to examine the association of the LHX4 polymorphisms with growth traits in beef cattle breed. A total of 7 single nucleotide polymorphyisms (SNPs) have been identified in the coding region and noncoding region of the bovine LHX4 by sequencing pooled DNA samples (Pool-Seq) and PCR-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) methods. The linkage disequilibrium was assessed in 871 individuals representing four main cattle breeds from China. The SNPs 2-5 and 7-8 were found to be in complete linkage disequilibrium, respectively. The result of  haplotype analysis of 13 SNPs showed that 31 haplotypes were found in four Chinese cattle breeds, and 20 genotypes were only found in Nanyang cattle. The statistical analyses indicated that the SNP1-5, and 6 are associated with the body weight at 18, and 6 months of age in Nanyang cattle population (P<0.05), but no significant associations between their twenty combined genotypes. Our results  provide evidence that some polymorphisms in LHX4 are associated with growth traits at certain ages, and may be used as candidates for marker-assisted selection and management in cattle.

24468663	Mutations in calpastatin and -calpain are associated with meat tenderness, flavor and juiciness in Hanwoo (Korean cattle): molecular modeling of the effects of substitutions in the calpastatin/-calpain complex. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in Calpain 1 and Calpastatin genes previously associated with meat tenderness attributes in other cattle breeds in Korean Hanwoo cattle. The Hanwoo resource population was used to study association of 7  SNPs with beef tenderness, flavor, juiciness, intramuscular fat and shear force.  In this association study, CAST:c.182A>G (+0.14, P=0.04) and CAST:c.1985G>C (-0.12, P=0.02) had significant effects on juiciness, but no effects on other traits. In contrast, CAPN1:c.1589G>A was associated with meat tenderness (P=0.01) and juiciness (P=0.04). The CAPN1:c.1589G>A (Val530Ile) SNP marker displayed significant effect on the meat tenderness score which is strongly supported by molecular modeling of the CAPN1:c.1589G>A (Val530Ile) variant that inhibits CAST  protein from binding more strongly than the wild-type protein, which may explain  its effect on meat tenderness.

24476087	Single nucleotide polymorphisms for feed efficiency and performance in crossbred  beef cattle. BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to: (1) identify new SNPs for residual feed  intake (RFI) and performance traits within candidate genes identified in a genome wide association study (GWAS); (2) estimate the proportion of variation in RFI explained by the detected SNPs; (3) estimate the effects of detected SNPs on carcass traits to avoid undesirable correlated effects on these economically important traits when selecting for feed efficiency; and (4) map the genes to biological mechanisms and pathways. A total number of 339 SNPs corresponding to 180 genes were tested for association with phenotypes using a single locus regression (SLRM) and genotypic model on 726 and 990 crossbred animals for feed efficiency and carcass traits, respectively. RESULTS: Strong evidence of associations for RFI were located on chromosomes 8, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, and 28. The strongest association with RFI (P = 0.0017) was found with a newly discovered SNP located on BTA 8 within the ELP3 gene. SNPs rs41820824 and rs41821600 on BTA 16 within the gene HMCN1 were strongly associated with RFI (P = 0.0064 and P = 0.0033, respectively). A SNP located on BTA 18 within the ZNF423 gene provided strong evidence for association with RFI (P = 0.0028). Genomic estimated breeding values (GEBV) from 98 significant SNPs were moderately correlated (0.47) to the estimated breeding values (EBVs) from a  mixed animal model. The significant (P < 0.05) SNPs (98) explained 26% of the genetic variance for RFI. In silico functional analysis for the genes suggested 35 and 39 biological processes and pathways, respectively for feed efficiency traits. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified several positional and functional candidate genes involved in important biological mechanisms associated with feed efficiency and performance. Significant SNPs should be validated in other populations to establish their potential utilization in genetic improvement programs.

24485673	Short communication: validation of somatic cell score-associated loci identified  in a genome-wide association study in German Holstein cattle. Recently, we identified 6 genomic loci affecting daughter yield deviations (DYD)  for somatic cell score (SCS) in a genome-wide association study (GWAS) performed  with German Holstein bulls. In the current study, we tested if these loci were associated with SCS in cows using their own performance data. The study was performed with 1,412 German Holstein cows, of which 483 were daughters of 71 bulls that had been used in the GWAS. We tested 10 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) representing 6 genomic regions that were associated with DYD  for SCS in bulls. All tested SNP were significant in cows. Seven of them, located on Bos taurus autosomes (BTA) 6, 13, and 19, had the same direction of effect as  those previously reported in the bull population. The most significant associations were detected on BTA6 and BTA19, accounting for 1.8% of the total genetic variance. The major allele of the 2 SNP on BTA6 and the minor allele of the 2 SNP on BTA19 were favorable for lower SCS. The differences between the homozygous genotype classes were up to 15,000 cells/mL. The verification of SNP associated with SCS in this study provides further evidence for the functional role of the linked genomic regions for immune response and contributes to identification of causative mutations. In particular, SNP with minor frequency of the favorable allele possess high potential to reduce SCS in German Holstein cattle by selection.

24496092	Genome-wide association study identifies novel loci associated with resistance to bovine tuberculosis. Tuberculosis (TB) caused by Mycobacterium bovis is a re-emerging disease of livestock that is of major economic importance worldwide, as well as being a zoonotic risk. There is significant heritability for host resistance to bovine TB (bTB) in dairy cattle. To identify resistance loci for bTB, we undertook a genome-wide association study in female Holstein-Friesian cattle with 592 cases and 559 age-matched controls from case herds. Cases and controls were categorised into distinct phenotypes: skin test and lesion positive vs skin test negative on  multiple occasions, respectively. These animals were genotyped with the Illumina  BovineHD 700K BeadChip. Genome-wide rapid association using linear and logistic mixed models and regression (GRAMMAR), regional heritability mapping (RHM) and haplotype-sharing analysis identified two novel resistance loci that attained chromosome-wise significance, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor T (PTPRT; P=4.8  10(-7)) and myosin IIIB (MYO3B; P=5.4  10(-6)). We estimated that 21% of the phenotypic variance in TB resistance could be explained by all of the informative single-nucleotide polymorphisms, of which the region encompassing the PTPRT gene accounted for 6.2% of the variance and a further 3.6% was associated with a putative copy number variant in MYO3B. The results from this study add to  our understanding of variation in host control of infection and suggest that genetic marker-based selection for resistance to bTB has the potential to make a  significant contribution to bTB control.

24517472	Genome-wide association analysis of feed intake and residual feed intake in Nellore cattle. BACKGROUND: Feed intake plays an important economic role in beef cattle, and is related with feed efficiency, weight gain and carcass traits. However, the phenotypes collected for dry matter intake and feed efficiency are scarce when compared with other measures such as weight gain and carcass traits. The use of genomic information can improve the power of inference of studies on these measures, identifying genomic regions that affect these phenotypes. This work performed the genome-wide association study (GWAS) for dry matter intake (DMI) and residual feed intake (RFI) of 720 Nellore cattle (Bos taurus indicus). RESULTS: In general, no genomic region extremely associated with both phenotypic  traits was observed, as expected for the variables that have their regulation controlled by many genes. Three SNPs surpassed the threshold for the Bonferroni multiple test for DMI and two SNPs for RFI. These markers are located on chromosomes 4, 8, 14 and 21 in regions near genes regulating appetite and ion transport and close to important QTL as previously reported to RFI and DMI, thus  corroborating the literature that points these two processes as important in the  physiological regulation of intake and feed efficiency. CONCLUSIONS: This study showed the first GWAS of DMI to identify genomic regions  associated with feed intake and efficiency in Nellore cattle. Some genes and QTLs previously described for DMI and RFI, in other subspecies (Bos taurus taurus), that influences these phenotypes are confirmed in this study.

24533445	Associations between variants of FADS genes and omega-3 and omega-6 milk fatty acids of Canadian Holstein cows. BACKGROUND: Fatty acid desaturase 1 (FADS1) and 2 (FADS2) genes code respectively for the enzymes delta-5 and delta-6 desaturases which are rate limiting enzymes in the synthesis of polyunsaturated omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids (FAs). Omega-3 and-6 FAs as well as conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) are present in bovine milk and have demonstrated positive health effects in humans. Studies in humans have shown significant relationships between genetic variants in FADS1 and 2 genes with plasma and tissue concentrations of omega-3 and-6 FAs. The aim of this study was to evaluate the extent of sequence variations within these two genes in Canadian Holstein cows as well as the association between sequence variants and health promoting FAs in milk. RESULTS: Thirty three SNPs were detected within the studied regions of genes including a synonymous mutation (FADS1-07, rs42187261, 306Tyr > Tyr) in exon 8 of FADS1, a non-synonymous mutation (FADS2-14, rs211580559, 294Ala > Val) within FADS2 exon 7, a splice site SNP (FADS2-05, rs211263660), a 3'UTR SNP (FADS2-23, rs109772589), and another 3'UTR SNP with an effect on a microRNA binding site within FADS2 gene (FADS2-19, rs210169303). Association analyses showed significant relations between three out of seven tested SNPs and several FAs. Significant associations (FDR P < 0.05) were recorded between FADS2-23 (rs109772589) and two omega-6 FAs (dihomogamma linolenic acid [C20:3n6] and arachidonic acid [C20:4n6]), FADS1-07 (rs42187261) and one omega-3 FA (eicosapentaenoic acid, C20:5n3) and tricosanoic acid (C23:0), and one intronic SNP, FADS1-01 (rs136261927) and C20:3n6. CONCLUSION: Our study has demonstrated positive associations between three SNPs within FADS1 and FADS2 genes (a SNP within the 3'UTR, a synonymous SNP and an intronic SNP), with three milk PUFAs of Canadian Holstein cows thus suggesting possible involvement of synonymous and non-coding region variants in FA synthesis. These SNPs may serve as potential genetic markers in breeding programs to increase milk FAs that are of benefit to human health.

24607034	Identification of bovine NPC1 gene cSNPs and their effects on body size traits of Qinchuan cattle. NPC1 gene is an important gene closely related to the Niemann-Pick type C (NPC).  Mutations in the NPC1 gene tend to cause Niemann-Pick type C, a lysosomal storage disorder. Previous studies have shown that NPC1 protein plays an important role in subcellular lipid transport, homeostasis, platelet function and formation, which are basic metabolic activities in the process of development. In this study, to explore the association between the NPC1 gene variation and body size traits in Qinchuan cattle, we detected four novel coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (cSNPs) in the bovine NPC1 gene, including one missense mutation (SNP1) and three synonymous mutations (SNP2, SNP3 and SNP4). Population genetic analyses of 518 individuals and association correlations between cSNPs and bovine body size traits were conducted in this research. A missense mutation at SNP1 locus was found to be significantly related to the heart girth, hip width and body weight (P<0.01 or P<0.05, 3.5-year-old). Two synonymous mutations at SNP2 and SNP3 loci also showed significant effects on hip width (P<0.05, 3.5-year-old). One synonymous mutation at SNP4 locus showed significant effect on body weight (P<0.05, 2.0-year-old). Combined haplotypes H2H6 and H6H6 showed significant effects on body size traits such as heart girth, hip width, and body  weight (3.5-year-old, P<0.01 or P<0.05). This study provides evidence that the NPC1 gene might be involved in the regulation of bovine growth and body development, and may be considered as a candidate gene for marker assisted selection (MAS) in beef cattle breeding industry.

24612794	A genome-wide association study of calf birth weight in Holstein cattle using single nucleotide polymorphisms and phenotypes predicted from auxiliary traits. Previous research has found that a quantitative trait locus exists affecting calving and conformation traits on Bos taurus autosome 18 that may be related to  increased calf birth weights, which are not routinely recorded in the United States. Birth weight data from large, intensively managed dairies in eastern Germany with management systems similar to those commonly found in the United States were used to develop a selection index predictor for predicted transmitting ability (PTA) of birth weight. The predictor included body depth, rump width, sire calving ease, sire gestation length, sire stillbirth, stature, and strength. Genetic and phenotypic correlations and heritabilities from the United States were substituted for the German values, and birth weight PTA predicted for 31,984 bulls with US genetic evaluations. A genome-wide association study was conducted on the predicted birth weight PTA with the 2-step genomic BLUP procedure used for routine evaluations in the United States. Allele substitution effects were predicted for 43,188 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP). Genotypes were available for 53,644 predictor animals. Gene set enrichment analysis was performed on the 100 SNP that had the largest effects expressed in additive genetic standard deviations. Several SNP related to growth and development were found among the 25 SNP with the largest effects, including markers located within or near ( 100 kbp) ABCA12, FLRT2, LHX4, MAP3K5, NRAC, NTNG1, PIGN, and ZNF75A. The gene set enrichment analysis identified the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes "Regulation of actin cytoskeleton" pathway (bta04810) as being enriched. That pathway includes the ROCK gene, which is involved in placental function in the human, as well as other developmental genes (e.g., FAK and PAK). Prediction equations derived from one population are useful  for identifying genes and gene networks associated with phenotypes that are not directly measured in a second population. This approach will identify only genes  associated with the traits used to construct the birth weight predictor, and not  loci that affect only birth weight.

24612955	Genome-wide association study for poor sperm motility in Holstein-Friesian bulls. The aim of the study was to screen the whole bull genome to identify markers and  candidate genes underlying poor sperm motility. The analyzed data set originates  from the Polish Holstein-Friesian bull population and consists of 41 Case and 279 Control bulls (selected from 1581 bulls). The most distinguishing trait of case group was very poor sperm motility (average 25.61%) when compared to control samples (average 72.95%). Each bull was genotyped using the Illumina BovineSNP50  BeadChip. Genome-wide association analysis was performed with the use of GoldenHelix SVS7 software. An additive model with a Cohran-Armitage test, Correlation/Trend adjusted by Bonferroni test were used to estimate the effect of Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) marker for poor sperm motility. Markers (n=34) reached genome-wide significance. The most significant SNP were located on chromosome 24 (rs110876480), 5 (rs110827324 and rs29011704), and 1 (rs110596818), in the close vicinity of melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R), PDZ domain containing ring finger 4 (PDZRN4) and ethanolamine kinase 1 (ETNK1), olfactory receptor 5K3-like (LOC785875) genes, respectively. For five other candidate genes located  close to significant markers (in distance of ca. 1 Mb), namely alkaline phosphatase, liver/bone/kidney (ALPL), tripartite motif containing 36 (TRIM36), 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehygrogenase (HIBADH), kelch-like 1 (KLHL1), protein kinase C, beta (PRKCB), their potential role in sperm motility was confirmed in the earlier studies. Five additional candidate genes, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), steroid-5-alpha-reductase, alpha polypeptide 2 (SRD5A2), cation channel, sperm associated 1 (CATSPER1) calpain 1 (mu/I) large subunit (CAPN1) were suggested to  be significantly associated with sperm motility or semen biochemistry. Results of the present study indicate there is a genetic complexity of poor sperm motility but also indicate there might be a causal polymorphism useful in marker-assisted  selection. Identifying genomic regions associated with poor sperm motility may be very important for early recognition of a young sire as unsuitable for effective  semen production in artificial insemination centers.

24666329	A polymorphism in XKR4 is significantly associated with serum prolactin concentrations in beef cows grazing tall fescue. Fescue toxicosis is a common syndrome of poor growth and reproductive performance of beef cattle grazing endophyte-infected tall fescue infected with Lolium arundinaceum Schreb. Together with decreased feed intake, decreased growth rates  and tissue necrosis due to vasoconstriction, depressed circulating serum prolactin concentrations are typically observed in cattle afflicted with fescue toxicosis. Polymorphisms within the XK, Kell blood group complex subunit-related  family, member 4 (XKR4) gene located on BTA14 have been previously reported to be associated with rump fat thickness, residual feed intake, average daily feed intake and average daily gain in cattle. Associations also have been reported between XKR4 genotype and effectiveness of the dopamine antagonist iloperidone as a treatment of schizophrenia in humans. Domperidone, a related dopamine antagonist, mediates effects of fescue toxicosis on livestock, including restoring depressed concentrations of prolactin. A mixed-breed population of 592  beef cattle grazing endophyte-infected tall fescue was used to examine the association between XKR4 genotype and circulating prolactin concentrations. The SNP rs42646708 was significantly (P = 0.0002) associated with serum prolactin concentrations and explained 2.45% of the phenotypic variation. Effect of genotype at the SNP was tested across five breeds, with significant associations  within both Angus (P = 0.0275) and Simmental (P = 0.0224) breeds. These results suggest XKR4 may play a role in mediating the negative effects of fescue toxicosis, and polymorphisms within this gene may be useful markers for selection for genetic resistance to the debilitating effects of endophyte-infected tall fescue.

24666668	Genome-wide association study for intramuscular fat deposition and composition in Nellore cattle. BACKGROUND: Meat from Bos taurus and Bos indicus breeds are an important source of nutrients for humans and intramuscular fat (IMF) influences its flavor, nutritional value and impacts human health. Human consumption of fat that contains high levels of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) can reduce the concentration of undesirable cholesterol (LDL) in circulating blood. Different feeding practices and genetic variation within and between breeds influences the  amount of IMF and fatty acid (FA) composition in meat. However, it is difficult and costly to determine fatty acid composition, which has precluded beef cattle breeding programs from selecting for a healthier fatty acid profile. In this study, we employed a high-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip to genotype 386 Nellore steers, a Bos indicus breed and, a Bayesian approach to identify genomic regions and putative candidate genes that could be involved with deposition and composition of IMF. RESULTS: Twenty-three genomic regions (1-Mb SNP windows) associated with IMF deposition and FA composition that each explain1% of the genetic variance were  identified on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 17, 26 and 27. Many of these regions were not previously detected in other breeds. The genes present in  these regions were identified and some can help explain the genetic basis of deposition and composition of fat in cattle. CONCLUSIONS: The genomic regions and genes identified contribute to a better understanding of the genetic control of fatty acid deposition and can lead to DNA-based selection strategies to improve meat quality for human consumption.

24668668	Polymorphisms in the bone morphogenetic protein 15 gene and their effect on sperm quality traits in Chinese Holstein bulls. Bone morphogenetic protein 15 (BMP-15) expression has been detected in the testis, but its roles in this organ has not been well elucidated. We evaluated polymorphisms of the BMP-15 gene by PCR-SSCP and PCR-RFLP in 212 Chinese Holstein bulls, and investigated possible associations with sperm quality traits, including semen volume per ejaculate, sperm density, fresh sperm motility, thawed sperm motility, acrosome integrity rate, and abnormal sperm rate. A single nucleotide polymorphism (C5697T) in intron 1 of the BMP-15 gene was identified in these bulls. Age was found to have significant effects on both fresh sperm motility and abnormal sperm rate. A significant effect of genotype on fresh sperm motility was also observed. Least square analysis showed that CT genotype bulls had significantly lower fresh sperm motility than CC or TT genotype bulls. In conclusion, BMP-15 should be considered as a potential genetic marker for sperm quality, based on its association with fresh sperm motility.

24668675	Investigation of the association of two candidate genes (H-FABP and PSMC1) with growth and carcass traits in Qinchuan beef cattle from China. Growth and carcass traits are economically important quality characteristics of beef cattle and are complex quantitative traits that are controlled by multiple genes. In this study, 2 candidate genes, H-FABP (encoding the heart fatty acid-binding protein) and PSMC1 (encoding the proteasome 26S subunit of ATPase 1) were investigated in Qinchuan beef cattle of China. PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing methods were used to detect mutations in the H-FABP and PSMC1 genes in Qinchuan cattle, and a T>C mutation in exon 1 of H-FABP and a T>C mutation in exon 9 of PSMC1 were identified. The association of these 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms with growth and carcass traits of Qinchuan cattle was analyzed. The T>C mutation  in H-FABP was significantly associated with body length and dressing percentage (P < 0.05) and the T>C mutation in PSMC1 with body length and hip width (P < 0.05), indicating that both of the 2 mutations in H-FABP and PSMC1 had effects on growth and carcass traits in the Qinchuan beef cattle breed. Thus, the results of our study suggest that the H-FABP and PSMC1 gene polymorphisms could be used as genetic markers in marker-assisted selection for improving Qinchuan beef cattle.

24782394	Genomewide association study of reproductive efficiency in female cattle. Reproductive efficiency is of economic importance in commercial beef cattle production, as failure to achieve pregnancy reduces the number of calves marketed per cow exposed. Identification of genetic markers with predictive merit for reproductive success would facilitate early selection of sires with daughters having improved reproductive rate without increasing generation intervals. To identify regions of the genome harboring variation affecting reproductive success, we applied a genomewide association study (GWAS) approach based on the >700,000 SNP marker assay, using a procedure based on genotyping multianimal pools of DNA to increase the number of animals that could be genotyped with available resources. Cows from several populations were classified according to reproductive efficiency, and DNA was pooled within population and phenotype prior to genotyping. Populations evaluated included a research population at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, 2 large commercial ranch populations, and a number of smaller populations (<100 head) across the United States. We detected 2 SNP with significant genomewide association (P  1.49  10(-7)), on BTA21 and BTA29,  3 SNP with suggestive associations (P  2.91  10(-6)) on BTA5, and 1 SNP with suggestive association each on BTA1 and BTA25. In addition to our novel findings, we confirmed previously published associations for SNP on BTA-X and all autosomes except 3 (BTA21, BTA22, and BTA28) encompassing substantial breed diversity including Bos indicus and Bos taurus breeds. The study identified regions of the  genome associated with reproductive efficiency, which are being targeted for further analysis to develop robust marker systems, and demonstrated that DNA pooling can be used to substantially reduce the cost of GWAS in cattle.

24725229	Association of bovine -casein protein variant I with milk production and milk protein composition. The aim of this study was to detect new polymorphisms in the bovine -casein (-CN) gene and to evaluate association of (new) -CN protein variants with milk  production traits and milk protein composition. Screening of the -CN gene in genomic DNA from 72 Holstein Friesian (HF) bulls resulted in detection of 19 polymorphisms and revealed the presence of -CN protein variant I in the Dutch HF population. Studies of association of -CN protein variants with milk composition usually do not discriminate protein variant I from variant A2. Association of -CN protein variants with milk composition was studied in 1857 first-lactation HF cows and showed that associations of protein variants A2 and I were quite different for several traits. -CN protein variant I was significantly associated with protein percentage and protein yield, and with s1 -casein (s1 -CN), s2 -casein (s2 -CN), -casein (-CN), -lactalbumin (-LA), -lactoglobulin (-LG), casein index and casein yield. Inferring --CN haplotypes showed that -CN protein variant I occurred only with -CN variant B. Consequently, associations of --CN haplotype IB with protein percentage, -CN, -LA, -LG and casein index are likely resulting from associations of -CN protein variant B, while associations of --CN haplotype IB with s1 -CN and s2 -CN seem to be resulting from associations of -CN variant I.

24730749	DNA polymorphisms and transcript abundance of PRKAG2 and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase in the rumen are associated with gain and feed intake in beef steers. Beef steers with variation in feed efficiency phenotypes were evaluated previously on a high-density SNP panel. Ten markers from rs110125325-rs41652818 on bovine chromosome 4 were associated with average daily gain (ADG). To identify the gene(s) in this 1.2-Mb region responsible for variation in ADG, genotyping with 157 additional markers was performed. Several markers (n = 41) were nominally associated with ADG, and three of these, including the only marker to withstand Bonferroni correction, were located within the protein kinase, AMP-activated, gamma 2 non-catalytic subunit (PRKAG2) gene. An additional population of cross-bred steers (n = 406) was genotyped for validation. One marker located within the PRKAG2 loci approached a significant association with gain. To evaluate PRKAG2 for differences in transcript abundance, we measured expression in the liver, muscle, rumen and intestine from steers (n = 32) with extreme feed efficiency phenotypes collected over two seasons. No differences in  PRKAG2 transcript abundance were detected in small intestine, liver or muscle. Correlation between gene expression level of PRKAG2 in rumen and average daily feed intake (ADFI) was detected in both seasons (P < 0.05); however, the direction differed by season. Lastly, we evaluated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), of which PRKAG2 is a subunit, for differences among ADG and ADFI and found that the phosphorylated form of AMPK was associated with ADFI in the rumen. These data suggest that PRKAG2 and its mature protein, AMPK, are involved in feed efficiency traits in beef steers. This is the first evidence to suggest that rumen AMPK may be contributing to ADFI in cattle.

24733441	Genome-wide association for growth traits in Canchim beef cattle. Studies are being conducted on the applicability of genomic data to improve the accuracy of the selection process in livestock, and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) provide valuable information to enhance the understanding on the genetics of complex traits. The aim of this study was to identify genomic regions and genes that play roles in birth weight (BW), weaning weight adjusted for 210 days of age (WW), and long-yearling weight adjusted for 420 days of age (LYW) in  Canchim cattle. GWAS were performed by means of the Generalized Quasi-Likelihood  Score (GQLS) method using genotypes from the BovineHD BeadChip and estimated breeding values for BW, WW, and LYW. Data consisted of 285 animals from the Canchim breed and 114 from the MA genetic group (derived from crossings between Charolais sires and  Canchim +  Zebu dams). After applying a false discovery rate correction at a 10% significance level, a total of 4, 12, and 10 SNPs were significantly associated with BW, WW, and LYW, respectively. These SNPs were surveyed to their corresponding genes or to surrounding genes within a distance of 250 kb. The genes DPP6 (dipeptidyl-peptidase 6) and CLEC3B (C-type lectin domain family 3 member B) were highlighted, considering its functions on the development of the brain and skeletal system, respectively. The GQLS method identified regions on chromosome associated with birth weight, weaning weight, and long-yearling weight in Canchim and MA animals. New candidate regions for body weight traits were detected and some of them have interesting biological functions, of which most have not been previously reported. The observation of QTL reports for body weight traits, covering areas surrounding the genes (SNPs) herein identified provides more evidence for these associations. Future studies targeting these areas could provide further knowledge to uncover the genetic architecture underlying growth traits in Canchim cattle.

24737437	Polymorphisms in the delta-like 2 homolog gene and their association with growth  and meat-quality traits in Qinchuan cattle. The delta-like 2 homolog (DLK2) modulates adipogenesis, hematopoiesis, osteogenesis, and other cell-differentiation processes. In the present study, we  detected potential polymorphisms in the DLK2 gene in 604 individuals of Qinchuan  cattle by using PCR-RFLP and DNA-sequencing methods. Herein, we identified five novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (g.888G>A, g.910A>G, g.995G>A, g.4321A>G, g.4850A>G) and analyzed their association with measured traits. Four of the five analyzed polymorphisms were associated with at least one of the following traits: body weight (BW), chest depth (CD), chest circumference (CC), back fat thickness (BT), and rib-eye area (REA). To the best of our knowledge, our research is the first to report the association of DLK2 gene polymorphisms with growth and meat quality traits in Qinchuan cattle. In summary, the results of our study suggest that the DLK2 gene can be used as a candidate gene in beef cattle breeding.

24782135	Genetic variations in the leptin gene associated with growth and carcass traits in Nellore cattle. The aim of the study was to detect polymorphisms in the leptin gene and to determine the association of these polymorphisms with growth and carcass traits in Nellore cattle. The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) -1457 (AJ571671:g.-1457A>G) and A59V (AF536174.1:g. 321C>T), as well as the microsatellite BM1500 (3.9 kb downstream), were genotyped. The measures of body weight and ultrasound examinations (rib eye area, back, and rump fat thickness) were performed in 3 different periods of animal management. During the first period, the animals were fed with grass and mineralized salt ad libitum. In the second period, they received grass and concentrate, and in the third, only concentrate. After the slaughter of animals, data were collected for classification and typification of carcasses. No significant association was found between the variables assessed and SNP -1457. Conversely, SNP A59V was associated with rump fat thickness and muscle color post-slaughter. BM1500 was associated with rump fat thickness in the first period (pre-slaughter), subcutaneous fat thickness in the second, weight of the animals in the third, and length of the carcass after slaughter. These results suggest that SNP A59V and the microsatellite BM1500 might be useful for marker-assisted selection in Nellore cattle.

24804775	Candidate gene association analysis for milk yield, composition, urea nitrogen and somatic cell scores in Brown Swiss cows. The aim of this study was to investigate 96 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 54 candidate genes, and test the associations of the polymorphic SNPs with milk yield, composition, milk urea nitrogen (MUN) content and somatic cell score (SCS) in individual milk samples from Italian Brown Swiss cows. Milk and blood samples were collected from 1271 cows sampled once from 85 herds. Milk production, quality traits (i.e. protein, casein, fat and lactose percentages), MUN and SCS were measured for each milk sample. Genotyping was performed using a  custom Illumina VeraCode GoldenGate approach. A Bayesian linear animal model that considered the effects of herd, days in milk, parity, SNP genotype and additive polygenic effect was used for the association analysis. Our results showed that 14 of the 51 polymorphic SNPs had relevant additive effects on at least one of the aforementioned traits. Polymorphisms in the glucocorticoid receptor DNA-binding factor 1 (GRLF1), prolactin receptor (PRLR) and chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) were associated with milk yield; an SNP in the stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD-1) was related to fat content; SNPs in the caspase recruitment domain 15 protein (CARD15) and lipin 1 (LPIN1) affected the protein and casein contents; SNPs in growth hormone 1 (GH1), lactotransferrin (LTF) and SCD-1 were relevant for casein number; variants in beta casein (CSN2), GH1, GRLF1 and LTF affected lactose content; SNPs in beta-2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2), serpin peptidase inhibitor (PI) and SCD-1 were associated with MUN; and SNPs in acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5A (STAT5A) were relevant in explaining the variation of SCS. Although further research is needed to validate these SNPs in other populations and breeds, the association between these markers and milk yield, composition, MUN and SCS could  be exploited in gene-assisted selection programs for genetic improvement purposes.

24808908	Genome-wide association study and ancestral origins of the slick-hair coat in tropically adapted cattle. The slick hair coat (SLICK) is a dominantly inherited trait typically associated  with tropically adapted cattle that are from Criollo descent through Spanish colonization of cattle into the New World. The trait is of interest relative to climate change, due to its association with improved thermo-tolerance and subsequent increased productivity. Previous studies localized the SLICK locus to  a 4 cM region on chromosome (BTA) 20 and identified signatures of selection in this region derived from Senepol cattle. The current study compares three slick-haired Criollo-derived breeds including Senepol, Carora, and Romosinuano and three additional slick-haired cross-bred lineages to non-slick ancestral breeds. Genome-wide association (GWA), haplotype analysis, signatures of selection, runs of homozygosity (ROH), and identity by state (IBS) calculations were used to identify a 0.8 Mb (37.7-38.5 Mb) consensus region for the SLICK locus on BTA20 in which contains SKP2 and SPEF2 as possible candidate genes. Three specific haplotype patterns are identified in slick individuals, all with zero frequency in non-slick individuals. Admixture analysis identified common genetic patterns between the three slick breeds at the SLICK locus. Principal component analysis (PCA) and admixture results show Senepol and Romosinuano sharing a higher degree of genetic similarity to one another with a much lesser degree of similarity to Carora. Variation in GWA, haplotype analysis, and IBS calculations with accompanying population structure information supports potentially two mutations, one common to Senepol and Romosinuano and another in Carora, effecting genes contained within our refined location for the SLICK locus.

24835309	Polymorphism analysis in genes of the somatotropic axis in Nellore cattle selected for growth. The somatotropic axis consists of genes that are involved in muscular development. These genes are potential regions of study to identify possible QTL  for economically important traits in beef cattle. The aim of this study was to verify the existence of GH1, POU1F1, and GHR polymorphisms in Nellore cattle to verify the influence of selection in these mutations and to analyse the association between molecular markers and body weight at different ages, yearling hip height, carcass fat thickness and loin eye area. Six hundred forty-five animals from the Centro APTA Bovinos de Corte, were genotyped by PCR-RFLP techniques. The association analyses were performed with general mixed models taking into consideration the effect of one marker, and other model taking into consideration interactions between two molecular markers. Only the molecular markers rs81109601 on GH1 and rs109136815 on GHR were polymorphic; however, they  were not found to be under selection. The association of the GHR rs109136815 marker and loin eye area was observed (p<0.05), as well as the effect of interaction between the markers and the female body weight at 550 days of age (p<0.04). The interaction effect should be considered in situations where the interactivity between two genes is known.

24858810	Genome wide association study identifies 20 novel promising genes associated with milk fatty acid traits in Chinese Holstein. Detecting genes associated with milk fat composition could provide valuable insights into the complex genetic networks of genes underling variation in fatty  acids synthesis and point towards opportunities for changing milk fat composition via selective breeding. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for 22 milk fatty acids in 784 Chinese Holstein cows with the PLINK  software. Genotypes were obtained with the Illumina BovineSNP50 Bead chip and a total of 40,604 informative, high-quality single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)  were used. Totally, 83 genome-wide significant SNPs and 314 suggestive significant SNPs associated with 18 milk fatty acid traits were detected. Chromosome regions that affect milk fatty acid traits were mainly observed on BTA1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 26 and 27. Of these, 146 SNPs were associated with more than one milk fatty acid trait; most of studied fatty acid traits were significant associated with multiple SNPs, especially C18:0 (105 SNPs), C18 index (93 SNPs), and C14 index (84 SNPs); Several SNPs are close to or within the DGAT1, SCD1 and FASN genes which are well-known to affect milk composition traits of dairy cattle. Combined with the previously reported QTL regions and the biological functions of the genes, 20 novel promising candidates  for C10:0, C12:0, C14:0, C14:1, C14 index, C18:0, C18:1n9c, C18 index, SFA, UFA and SFA/UFA were found, which composed of HTR1B, CPM, PRKG1, MINPP1, LIPJ, LIPK,  EHHADH, MOGAT1, ECHS1, STAT1, SORBS1, NFKB2, AGPAT3, CHUK, OSBPL8, PRLR, IGF1R, ACSL3, GHR and OXCT1. Our findings provide a groundwork for unraveling the key genes and causal mutations affecting milk fatty acid traits in dairy cattle.

24898131	Single nucleotide polymorphism and haplotype effects associated with somatic cell score in German Holstein cattle. BACKGROUND: To better understand the genetic determination of udder health, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on a population of 2354 German Holstein bulls for which daughter yield deviations (DYD) for somatic cell score (SCS) were available. For this study, we used genetic information of 44 576 informative single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 11 725 inferred haplotype  blocks. RESULTS: When accounting for the sub-structure of the analyzed population, 16 SNPs and 10 haplotypes in six genomic regions were significant at the Bonferroni  threshold of P1.1410-6. The size of the identified regions ranged from 0.05 to 5.62Mb. Genomic regions on chromosomes 5, 6, 18 and 19 coincided with known QTL affecting SCS, while additional genomic regions were found on chromosomes 13  and X. Of particular interest is the region on chromosome 6 between 85 and 88Mb, where QTL for mastitis traits and significant SNPs for SCS in different Holstein  populations coincide with our results. In all identified regions, except for the  region on chromosome X, significant SNPs were present in significant haplotypes.  The minor alleles of identified SNPs on chromosomes 18 and 19, and the major alleles of SNPs on chromosomes 6 and X were favorable for a lower SCS. Differences in somatic cell count (SCC) between alternative SNP alleles reached 14 000 cells/mL. CONCLUSIONS: The results support the polygenic nature of the genetic determination of SCS, confirm the importance of previously reported QTL, and provide evidence for the segregation of additional QTL for SCS in Holstein cattle. The small size of the regions identified here will facilitate the search  for causal genetic variations that affect gene functions.

24906027	Genome-wide association study for feedlot average daily gain in Nellore cattle (Bos indicus). The genome-wide association study (GWAS) results are presented for average daily  gain (ADG) in Nellore cattle. Phenotype of 720 male Bos indicus animals with information of ADG in feedlots and 354,147 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained from a database added by information from Illumina Bovine HD (777,962 SNPs) and Illumina BovineSNP50 (54,609) by imputation were used. After quality control and imputation, 290,620 SNPs remained in the association analysis, using  R package Genome-wide Rapid Association using Mixed Model and Regression method GRAMMAR-Gamma. A genomic region with six significant SNPs, at Bonferroni-corrected significance, was found on chromosome 3. The most significant SNP (rs42518459, BTA3: 85849977, p = 9.49  10(-8)) explained 5.62% of the phenotypic variance and had the allele substitution effect of -0.269 kg/day. Important genes such as PDE4B, LEPR, CYP2J2 and FGGY are located near this region, which is overlapped by 12 quantitative trait locus (QTLs) described  for several production traits. Other regions with markers with suggestive effects were identified in BTA6 and BTA10. This study showed regions with major effects on ADG in Bos indicus in feedlots. This information may be useful to increase the efficiency of selecting this trait and to understand the physiological processes  involved in its regulation.

24906442	Large-effect pleiotropic or closely linked QTL segregate within and across ten US cattle breeds. BACKGROUND: The availability of high-density SNP assays including the BovineSNP50 (50 K) enables the identification of novel quantitative trait loci (QTL) and improvement of the resolution of the locations of previously mapped QTL. We performed a series of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) using 50 K genotypes scored in 18,274 animals from 10 US beef cattle breeds with observations for twelve body weights, calving ease and carcass traits. RESULTS: A total of 159 large-effects QTL (defined as 1-Mb genome windows explaining more than 1% of additive genetic variance) were identified. In general, more QTL were identified in analyses with bigger sample sizes. Four large-effect pleiotropic or closely linked QTLs located on BTA6 at 37-42 Mb (primarily at 38 Mb), on BTA7 at 93 Mb, on BTA14 at 23-26 Mb (primarily at 25 Mb) and on BTA20 at 4 Mb were identified in more than one breed. Several breed-specific large-effect pleiotropic or closely linked QTL were also identified. Some identified QTL regions harbor genes known to have large effects  on a variety of traits in cattle such as PLAG1 and MSTN and others harbor promising candidate genes including NCAPG, ARRDC3, ERGIC1, SH3PXD2B, HMGA2, MSRB3, LEMD3, TIGAR, SEPT7, and KIRREL3. Gene ontology analysis revealed that genes involved in ossification and in adipose tissue development were over-represented in the identified pleiotropic QTL. Also, the MAPK signaling pathway was identified as a common pathway affected by the genes located near the pleiotropic QTL. CONCLUSIONS: This largest GWAS ever performed in beef cattle, led us to discover  several novel across-breed and breed-specific large-effect pleiotropic QTL that cumulatively account for a significant percentage of additive genetic variance (e.g. more than a third of additive genetic variance of birth and mature weights; and calving ease direct in Hereford). These results will improve our understanding of the biology of growth and body composition in cattle.

24909189	Quantitative trait loci mapping for conjugated linoleic acid, vaccenic acid and (9) -desaturase in Italian Brown Swiss dairy cattle using selective DNA pooling. A selective DNA pooling approach was applied to identify QTL for conjugated linoleic acid (CLA), vaccenic acid (VA) and (9) -desaturase (D9D) milk content in Italian Brown Swiss dairy cattle. Milk samples from 60 animals with higher values (after correction for environmental factors) and 60 animals with lower values for each of these traits from each of five half-sib families were pooled separately. The pools were genotyped using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip. Sire allele frequencies were compared between high and low tails at the sire and  marker level for SNPs for which the sires were heterozygous. An r procedure was implemented to perform data analysis in a selective DNA pooling design. A correction for multiple tests was applied using the proportion of false positives among all test results. BTA 19 showed the largest number of markers in association with CLA. Associations between SNPs and the VA and (9) -desaturase traits were found on several chromosomes. A bioinformatics survey identified genes with an important role in pathways for milk fat and fatty acids metabolism  within 1 Mb of SNP markers associated with fatty acids contents.

24914496	Tetra-primer ARMS-PCR identifies the novel genetic variations of bovine HNF-4 gene associating with growth traits. Hepatocyte nuclear factor-4 (HNF-4), a member of the hepatocyte nuclear factor  family, plays an important role in regulating the expression of genes involved in the development, differentiation and normal function of liver and pancreatic  cells, as well as the maintenance of glucose homeostasis. Tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system PCR (T-ARMS-PCR) is a new method offering fast detection and extreme simplicity at a negligible cost for SNP genotyping. In this paper, we characterize the polymorphisms of the bovine HNF-4 gene in three Chinese indigenous cattle breeds (n=660). Six novel SNPs were identified including 1 mutation in the coding region and others in introns. The statistical analyses indicated that 4 SNPs (g.T53729C, g.A53861G, g.A65188C and g.T65444C) affected growth traits markedly (P<0.05) in Qinchuan cattle (2 years after birth). Besides, haplotypes involving these 4 SNP sites in the bovine HNF-4 gene were identified and their effects on growth traits were also analyzed. The results showed that haplotypes 2, 7, 9 and 11 were predominant and  accounted for 73.2%, 59.6%, and 67.1% in Qinchuan, Nanyang and Jiaxian cattle breeds, respectively. Hap9 (TAAT) was extremely predominant in all test populations, which suggested that individuals with Hap9 were more adapted to the  environment. Furthermore, 4 combined haplotypes were constructed to guarantee the reliability of analysis results in Qinchuan cattle. There were also significant differences in body length (P<0.05). These findings will benefit for the application of DNA marker related to the growth traits on marker-assisted selection (MAS), and improve the performance of beef cattle.

24935859	Detection of copy number variations and their effects in Chinese bulls. BACKGROUND: Copy number variations (CNVs) are a main source of genomic structural variations underlying animal evolution and production traits. Here, with one pure-blooded Angus bull as reference, we describe a genome-wide analysis of CNVs  based on comparative genomic hybridization arrays in 29 Chinese domesticated bulls and examined their effects on gene expression and cattle growth traits. RESULTS: We identified 486 copy number variable regions (CNVRs), covering 2.45% of the bovine genome, in 24 taurine (Bos taurus), together with 161 ones in 2 yaks (Bos grunniens) and 163 ones in 3 buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis). Totally, we discovered 605 integrated CNVRs, with more "loss" events than both "gain" and "both" ones, and clearly clustered them into three cattle groups. Interestingly,  we confirmed their uneven distributions across chromosomes, and the differences of mitochondrion DNA copy number (gain: taurine, loss: yak & buffalo). Furthermore, we confirmed approximately 41.8% (253/605) and 70.6% (427/605) CNVRs span cattle genes and quantitative trait loci (QTLs), respectively. Finally, we confirmed 6 CNVRs in 9 chosen ones by using quantitative PCR, and further demonstrated that CNVR22 had significantly negative effects on expression of PLA2G2D gene, and both CNVR22 and CNVR310 were associated with body measurements  in Chinese cattle, suggesting their key effects on gene expression and cattle traits. CONCLUSIONS: The results advanced our understanding of CNV as an important genomic structural variation in taurine, yak and buffalo. This study provides a highly valuable resource for Chinese cattle's evolution and breeding researches.

24961487	Genetic variations in the SPP1 promoter affect gene expression and the level of osteopontin secretion into bovine milk. Osteopontin (OPN) is now recognized as an important cytokine and extracellular integrin-binding protein at the crossroads of inflammation and homeostasis. In a  previous study, we found that OPN gene (SPP1) polymorphisms are associated with milk performance traits and somatic cell score (SCS), a parameter used to estimate the genetic value of udder health in dairy cattle. In this study, we assessed whether the genetic variations had an impact on SPP1 promoter activity,  immune response and the level of OPN secreted into milk. The influence of DNA polymorphisms on the promoter activity of SPP1 was confirmed in vitro. To measure the impact of the genetic variations on OPN secretion into milk, we measured OPN  levels in both plasma and milk throughout lactation. Cows were grouped by the OPN haplotypes associated with a high (H2H3) or low (H1H4) SCS. For both H2H3 and H1H4, the OPN level in plasma remained low throughout lactation, although the concentration in the milk of H1H4 cows increased more in late lactation. Moreover, the macrophages of H1H4 cows expressed a lower SPP1 and proinflammatory IL6 in response to infection. Regarding the immune cell response, cows with the genetic potential to secrete higher OPN levels during late lactation had macrophages expressing fewer proinflammatory cytokines, a situation that might explain the genetic association with low somatic cells. Although OPN's favorable roles during late lactation remain to be elucidated, the tissue remodeling properties associated with OPN may be beneficial for reducing the incidence of infection during the transition period in lactating cows.

24996426	A genome-wide association study of immune response traits in Canadian Holstein cattle. BACKGROUND: Breeding for enhanced immune response (IR) has been suggested as a tool to improve inherent animal health. Dairy cows with superior antibody-mediated (AMIR) and cell-mediated immune responses (CMIR) have been demonstrated to have a lower occurrence of many diseases including mastitis. Adaptive immune response traits are heritable, and it is, therefore, possible to  breed for improved IR, decreasing the occurrence of disease. The objective of this study was to perform genome-wide association studies to determine differences in genetic profiles among Holstein cows classified as High or Low for AMIR and CMIR. From a total of 680 cows with immune response phenotypes, 163 cows for AMIR (81 High and 82 Low) and 140 for CMIR (75 High and 65 Low) were selectively genotyped using the Illumina Bovine SNP50 BeadChip. Results were validated using an unrelated population of 164 Holstein bulls IR phenotyped for AMIR and 146 for CMIR. RESULTS: A generalized quasi likelihood score method was used to determine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and chromosomal regions associated with immune response. After applying a 5% chromosomal false discovery rate, 186 SNPs were significantly associated with AMIR. The majority (93%) of significant markers were on chromosome 23, with a similar peak found in the bull population. For CMIR, 21 SNP markers remained significant. Candidate genes within 250,000 base pairs of significant SNPs were identified to determine biological pathways associated with AMIR and CMIR. Various pathways were identified, including the antigen processing and presentation pathway, important in host defense. Candidate genes included those within the bovine Major Histocompatability Complex such as BoLA-DQ, BoLA-DR and the non-classical BoLA-NC1 for AMIR and BoLA-DQ for CMIR, the complement system including C2 and C4 for AMIR and C1q for CMIR, and cytokines including IL-17A, IL17F for AMIR and IL-17RA for CMIR and tumor necrosis factor for both AMIR and CMIR. Additional genes associated with CMIR included galectins 1, 2 and 3, BCL2 and -defensin. CONCLUSIONS: The significant genetic variation associated with AMIR and CMIR in this study may imply feasibility to include immune response in genomic breeding indices as an approach to improve inherent animal health.

25023801	Influence of single nucleotide polymorphisms in the myostatin and myogenic factor 5 muscle growth-related genes on the performance traits of Marchigiana beef cattle. The Marchigiana is famous for its large body size and favorable dressing percentage. A myostatin (MSTN) gene mutation (a G to T transversion) was identified in the breed. The homozygote "GG" yields a "normal" phenotype, the homozygote "TT" yields a double muscled body shape but sometimes causes survival  problems, and the heterozygote genotype produces an extremely muscled body without defects. In practice, Marchigiana "TT" homozygotes are culled from reproduction, but the heterozygotes are chosen as sires. The objective of this study was to assess genes involved in Marchigiana muscle development to improve selection procedures. The effects of the MSTN and myogenic factor 5 (MYF5) genes  on the growth and muscle traits in the Marchigiana breed were assessed. The effects of MSTN together with the genotype of the causative mutation (g.874G > T) and the effects of the two SNP in the promoter were studied (g.-371T > A and g.-805G > C). The SNP effects were evaluated in a comparison between the means of the several genotypes or for the average gene substitution and dominance effect.  Two hundred forty-nine bullocks were evaluated using a performance test. At the beginning and end of the trial, the animals were weighed and their bodies were measured every 21 d up to 12 mo of age. In addition to these observations, morphological scores and the BLUP indices were estimated at the end of the performance test. The obtained results suggested that the MSTN g.874G > T and MYF5 SNP could be considered in the selection program of the Marchigiana breed. A MSTN g.874G > T genotyping service for the breeders could help to avoid the "TT"  genotype and to select for the "GT" genotype. The "AA" MYF5 SNP genotype could also be selected for even if good muscle development yields a certain size reduction.

25070150	A SNP in intron 8 of CD46 causes a novel transcript associated with mastitis in Holsteins. BACKGROUND: The membrane protein CD46, a ubiquitous cell surface pathogen receptor, can bind Streptococcus to trigger cell autophagy, which is a critical step in the control of infection. RESULTS: In this study, we found a new splice variant designated CD46 transcript  variant (CD46-TV). The splice variant is characterized by the retention of a 48bp sequence from intron 8 of the bovine CD46 gene, which encodes a putative protein enlarged by 16 amino acids. CD46-TV mRNA was found to be over expressed in mastitis-infected mammary gland tissues relative to healthy tissues. A single  nucleotide polymorphism (c. 1033+2184 C>T) in the exonic splicing enhancer (ESE) motif region was shown to result in the CD46-TV aberrant splice variant through constructing alternative alleles using the pSPL3 exon capturing vector and transfecting these into 293T cells. Allelic frequency in 56,682 individuals  belonging to 112 Bos taurus, Bos indicus, Bos javanicus, Bos grunniens and Bos mutus, etc. suggests that the C allele (80.09%) is the ancestral allele. Association analysis found that the mean genomic estimated breeding values (gEBV) for milk somatic cell score and the occurrence of clinical mastitis, as well as the milk somatic cell score of Chinese Holsteins with the CT genotype was lower than those of individuals with either the CC or TT genotypes. The mean gEBV for udder health synthesis for the TT genotype was greater than those for the CC or CT genotypes. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the CD46 gene likely plays a critical role in the risk of mastitis caused by Streptococcus in dairy cows via an alternative  splicing mechanism caused by a functional mutation in intron 8. Our data also underline the importance of variation within ESEs in regulating transcript processing.

25084281	Improvement of prediction ability for genomic selection of dairy cattle by including dominance effects. Dominance may be an important source of non-additive genetic variance for many traits of dairy cattle. However, nearly all prediction models for dairy cattle have included only additive effects because of the limited number of cows with both genotypes and phenotypes. The role of dominance in the Holstein and Jersey breeds was investigated for eight traits: milk, fat, and protein yields; productive life; daughter pregnancy rate; somatic cell score; fat percent and protein percent. Additive and dominance variance components were estimated and then used to estimate additive and dominance effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The predictive abilities of three models with both additive and dominance effects and a model with additive effects only were assessed using  ten-fold cross-validation. One procedure estimated dominance values, and another  estimated dominance deviations; calculation of the dominance relationship matrix  was different for the two methods. The third approach enlarged the dataset by including cows with genotype probabilities derived using genotyped ancestors. For yield traits, dominance variance accounted for 5 and 7% of total variance for Holsteins and Jerseys, respectively; using dominance deviations resulted in smaller dominance and larger additive variance estimates. For non-yield traits, dominance variances were very small for both breeds. For yield traits, including  additive and dominance effects fit the data better than including only additive effects; average correlations between estimated genetic effects and phenotypes showed that prediction accuracy increased when both effects rather than just additive effects were included. No corresponding gains in prediction ability were found for non-yield traits. Including cows with derived genotype probabilities from genotyped ancestors did not improve prediction accuracy. The largest additive effects were located on chromosome 14 near DGAT1 for yield traits for both breeds; those SNPs also showed the largest dominance effects for fat yield (both breeds) as well as for Holstein milk yield.

25128478	Genome wide CNV analysis reveals additional variants associated with milk production traits in Holsteins. BACKGROUND: Milk production is an economically important sector of global agriculture. Much attention has been paid to the identification of quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with milk, fat, and protein yield and the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying them. Copy number variation (CNV) is an emerging  class of variants which may be associated with complex traits. RESULTS: In this study, we performed a genome-wide association between CNVs and milk production traits in 26,362 Holstein bulls and cows. A total of 99 candidate CNVs were identified using Illumina BovineSNP50 array data, and association tests for each production trait were performed using a linear regression analysis with  PCA correlation. A total of 34 CNVs on 22 chromosomes were significantly associated with at least one milk production trait after false discovery rate (FDR) correction. Some of those CNVs were located within or near known QTL for milk production traits. We further investigated the relationship between associated CNVs with neighboring SNPs. For all 82 combinations of traits and CNVs (less than 400 kb in length), we found 17 cases where CNVs directly overlapped with tag SNPs and 40 cases where CNVs were adjacent to tag SNPs. In 5 cases, CNVs located were in strong linkage disequilibrium with tag SNPs, either within or adjacent to the same haplotype block. There were an additional 20 cases where CNVs did not have a significant association with SNPs, suggesting that the effects of those CNVs were probably not captured by tag SNPs. CONCLUSION: We conclude that combining CNV with SNP analyses reveals more genetic variations underlying milk production traits than those revealed by SNPs alone.

25148050	A multiple-SNP approach for genome-wide association study of milk production traits in Chinese Holstein cattle. The multiple-SNP analysis has been studied by many researchers, in which the effects of multiple SNPs are simultaneously estimated and tested in a multiple linear regression. The multiple-SNP association analysis usually has higher power and lower false-positive rate for detecting causative SNP(s) than single marker analysis (SMA). Several methods have been proposed to simultaneously estimate and test multiple SNP effects. In this research, a fast method called MEML (Mixed model based Expectation-Maximization Lasso algorithm) was developed for simultaneously estimate of multiple SNP effects. An improved Lasso prior was assigned to SNP effects which were estimated by searching the maximum joint posterior mode. The residual polygenic effect was included in the model to absorb many tiny SNP effects, which is treated as missing data in our EM algorithm. A series of simulation experiments were conducted to validate the proposed method,  and the results showed that compared with SMMA, the new method can dramatically decrease the false-positive rate. The new method was also applied to the 50k SNP-panel dataset for genome-wide association study of milk production traits in  Chinese Holstein cattle. Totally, 39 significant SNPs and their nearby 25 genes were found. The number of significant SNPs is remarkably fewer than that by SMMA  which found 105 significant SNPs. Among 39 significant SNPs, 8 were also found by SMMA and several well-known QTLs or genes were confirmed again; furthermore, we also got some positional candidate gene with potential function of effecting milk production traits. These novel findings in our research should be valuable for further investigation.

25149327	Fine mapping of quantitative trait loci underlying sensory meat quality traits in three French beef cattle breeds. Improving the traits that underlie meat quality is a major challenge in the beef  industry. The objective of this paper was to detect QTL linked to sensory meat quality traits in 3 French beef cattle breeds. We genotyped 1,059, 1,219, and 947 young bulls and their sires belonging to the Charolais, Limousin, and Blonde d'Aquitaine breeds, respectively, using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip (Illumina Inc., San Diego, CA). After estimating relevant genetic parameters using VCE software, we performed a linkage disequilibrium and linkage analysis on 4 meat traits: intramuscular fat content, muscle lightness, shear force, and tenderness score. Heritability coefficients largely ranged between 0.10 and 0.24; however, they reached a maximum of 0.44 and 0.50 for intramuscular fat content and tenderness score, respectively, in the Charolais breed. The 2 meat texture traits, shear force and tenderness score, were strongly genetically correlated (-0.91 in the Charolais and Limousin breed and -0.86 in the Blonde d'Aquitaine breed), indicating that they are 2 different measures of approximately the same trait. The genetic correlation between tenderness and intramuscular fat content differed across breeds. Using a significance threshold of 5  10(-4) for QTL detection, we found more than 200 significant positions across the 29 autosomal chromosomes for the 4 traits in the Charolais and Blonde d'Aquitaine breeds; in contrast, there were only 78 significant positions in the Limousin breed. Few QTL were common across breeds. We detected QTL for intramuscular fat content located  near the myostatin gene in the Charolais and Blonde d'Aquitaine breeds. No mutation in this gene has been reported for the Blonde d'Aquitaine breed; therefore, it suggests that an unknown mutation could be segregating in this breed. We confirmed that, in certain breeds, markers in the calpastatin and calpain 1 gene regions affect tenderness. We also found new QTL as several QTL on chromosome 3 that are significantly associated with meat tenderness in the Blonde d'Aquitaine breed. Overall, these results greatly contribute to the goal of building a panel of markers that can be used to select animals of high meat quality.

25151887	Genome-wide association study using high-density single nucleotide polymorphism arrays and whole-genome sequences for clinical mastitis traits in dairy cattle. Mastitis is a mammary disease that frequently affects dairy cattle. Despite considerable research on the development of effective prevention and treatment strategies, mastitis continues to be a significant issue in bovine veterinary medicine. To identify major genes that affect mastitis in dairy cattle, 6 chromosomal regions on Bos taurus autosome (BTA) 6, 13, 16, 19, and 20 were selected from a genome scan for 9 mastitis phenotypes using imputed high-density  single nucleotide polymorphism arrays. Association analyses using sequence-level  variants for the 6 targeted regions were carried out to map causal variants using whole-genome sequence data from 3 breeds. The quantitative trait loci (QTL) discovery population comprised 4,992 progeny-tested Holstein bulls, and QTL were  confirmed in 4,442 Nordic Red and 1,126 Jersey cattle. The targeted regions were  imputed to the sequence level. The highest association signal for clinical mastitis was observed on BTA 6 at 88.97 Mb in Holstein cattle and was confirmed in Nordic Red cattle. The peak association region on BTA 6 contained 2 genes: vitamin D-binding protein precursor (GC) and neuropeptide FF receptor 2 (NPFFR2), which, based on known biological functions, are good candidates for affecting mastitis. However, strong linkage disequilibrium in this region prevented conclusive determination of the causal gene. A different QTL on BTA 6 located at  88.32 Mb in Holstein cattle affected mastitis. In addition, QTL on BTA 13 and 19  were confirmed to segregate in Nordic Red cattle and QTL on BTA 16 and 20 were confirmed in Jersey cattle. Although several candidate genes were identified in these targeted regions, it was not possible to identify a gene or polymorphism as the causal factor for any of these regions.

25158260	Genome-wide association study on growth traits in Colombian creole breeds and crossbreeds with Zebu cattle. Whole genome selection represents an important tool for improving parameters related to the production of livestock. In order to build genomic selection indexes within a particular breed, it is important to identify polymorphisms that have the most significant association with a desired trait. A genome-wide marker  association approach based on the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip(TM) was used to identify genomic regions affecting birth weight (BW), weaning weight (WW), and daily weight gain (DWG) in purebred and crossbred creole cattle populations. We genotyped 654 individuals of Blanco Orejinegro (BON), Romosinuano (ROMO) and Ceb breeds and the crossbreeds BON x Ceb and ROMO x Ceb, and tested 5 genetic control models. In total, 85 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were related  (P < 0.05) to the 3 evaluated traits; BW was associated with the highest number of SNPs. For statistical false-positive correction, Bonferroni correction was used. From the results, we identified 7, 6, and 4 SNPs with strong associations with BW, WW, and DWG, respectively. Many of these SNPs were located on important  coding regions of the bovine genome; their ontology and interactions are discussed herein. The results could contribute to the identification of genes involved in the physiology of beef cattle growth and the development of new strategies for breeding management via genomic selection to improve the productivity of creole cattle herds.

25164077	Validation of genetic polymorphisms on BTA14 associated with carcass trait in a commercial Hanwoo population. The objective of this study was to validate the association of significant SNPs identified from a previous genome-wide association study with carcass weight (CWT) in a commercial Hanwoo population. We genotyped 13 SNPs located on BTA14 in 867 steers from Korea Hanwoo feedlot bulls. Of these 13 SNPs, five SNPs, namely rs29021868, rs110061498, rs109546980, rs42404006 and rs42303720, were found to be significantly associated (P < 0.001) with CWT. These five significant markers spanned the 24.3 to 29.4 Mb region of BTA14. The most significant marker (rs29021868) for CWT in this study had a 13.07 kg allele substitution effect and  accounted for 2.4% of the additive genetic variance in the commercial Hanwoo population. The SNP marker rs109546980 was found to be significantly associated with both CWT (P < 0.001) and eye muscle area (P < 0.001) and could potentially be exploited for marker-assisted selection in Hanwoo cattle. We also genotyped the ss319607402 variation, which maps to intron2 of PLAG1 gene and which is already reported to be associated with height, to identify any significant association with carcass weight; however, no such association was observed in this Hanwoo commercial population.

25178377	Genome-wide Association Study for Warner-Bratzler Shear Force and Sensory Traits  in Hanwoo (Korean Cattle). Significant SNPs associated with Warner-Bratzler (WB) shear force and sensory traits were confirmed for Hanwoo beef (Korean cattle). A Bonferroni-corrected genome-wide significant association (p<1.310(-6)) was detected with only one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) on chromosome 5 for WB shear force. A slightly higher number of SNPs was significantly (p<0.001) associated with WB shear force than with other sensory traits. Further, 50, 25, 29, and 34 SNPs were significantly associated with WB shear force, tenderness, juiciness, and flavor likeness, respectively. The SNPs between p = 0.001 and p = 0.0001 thresholds explained 3% to 9% of the phenotypic variance, while the most significant SNPs accounted for 7% to 12% of the phenotypic variance. In conclusion, because WB shear force and sensory evaluation were moderately affected by a few loci and minimally affected by other loci, further studies are required by using a large sample size and high marker density.

25204440	A genome-wide association study reveals a QTL influencing caudal supernumerary teats in Holstein cattle. Supernumerary teats represent a common abnormality of the bovine udder. A genome-wide association study was performed based on the proportion of the occurrence of supernumerary teats in the daughters of 1097 Holstein bulls. The heritability of caudal supernumerary teats without mammary gland in this study was 0.604. The largest proportion of the heritability was attributable to BTA 20. The strongest evidence for association was with five SNPs on chromosome 20, referred to as a QTL. The mode of inheritance at this QTL was dominant. These findings reveal that the occurrence of caudal supernumerary teats without mammary gland in Holstein cattle is influenced by a QTL on chromosome 20 and a polygenic  part. The data support the high potential of the SNPs in the QTL region as markers for breeding against caudal supernumerary teats.

25216717	Fine mapping QTL for female fertility on BTA04 and BTA13 in dairy cattle using HD SNP and sequence data. BACKGROUND: Female fertility is important for the maintenance of the production in a dairy cattle herd. Two QTL regions on BTA04 and on BTA13 previously detected in Nordic Holstein (NH) and validated in the Danish Jersey (DJ) and Nordic Red (NR) were investigated further in the present study to further refine the QTL locations. Refined QTL regions were imputed to the full sequence data. The genes  in the regions were then studied to ascertain their possible effect on fertility  traits. RESULTS: BTA04 was screened for number of inseminations (AIS), 56-day non-return  rate (NRR), days from first to last insemination (IFL), and the interval from calving to first insemination (ICF) in the range of 38,257,758 to 40,890,784 bp,  whereas BTA13 was screened for ICF only in the range from 21,236,959 to 46,150,079 with the HD bovine SNP array for NH, DJ and NR. No markers in the DJ and NR breeds reached significance. By analyzing imputed sequence data the QTL position on BTA04 was narrowed down to two regions in the NH. In these two regions a total of 9 genes were identified. BTA13 was analyzed using sequence data for the NH breed. The highest -log10(P-value) was 19.41 at 33,903,159 bp. Two regions were identified: Region 1: 33,900,143-33,908,994 bp and Region 2: 34,051,815-34,056,728 bp. SNPs within and between these two regions were annotated as intergenic. CONCLUSION: Screening BTA04 and BTA13 for female fertility traits in NH, NR and DJ suggested that the QTL for female fertility were specific for NH. A missense mutation in CD36 showed the strongest association with fertility traits on BTA04. The annotated SNPs on BTA13 were all intergenic variants. It is possible that BTA13 at this stage is poorly annotated such that the associated polymorphisms are located in as-yet undiscovered genes. Fertility traits are complex traits as  many different biological and physiological factors determine whether a cow is fertile. Therefore it is not expected that there is a simple explanation with an  obvious candidate gene but it is more likely a network of genes and intragenic variants that explain the variation of these traits.

25231280	Phenotype definition is a main point in genome-wide association studies for bovine Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis infection status. Paratuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) causes economic losses and is present in dairy herds worldwide. Different studies used different diagnostic tests to detect infection status and are the basis of genome-wide association (GWA) studies with inconsistent results. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify and compare genomic regions associated with MAP susceptibility in the same cohort of cattle using different diagnostic tests. The GWA study was performed in German Holsteins within a case-control assay using 305 cows tested for MAP by fecal culture and additional with four different commercial ELISA-tests. Genotyping was performed with the Illumina Bovine SNP50 BeadChip. The results using fecal culture or ELISA test led to the identification of different genetic loci. Two single-nucleotide polymorphisms showed significant association with the ELISA-status. However, no significant association for MAP infection could be confirmed. Our results show that the definition of the MAP-phenotype has an important impact on the outcome of GWA studies for paratuberculosis.

25242430	A quantitative trait locus on Bos taurus autosome 17 explains a large proportion  of the genetic variation in de novo synthesized milk fatty acids. A genomic region associated with milk fatty acid (FA) composition has been detected on Bos taurus autosome (BTA)17 based on 50,000 (50K) single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotypes. The aim of our study was to fine-map BTA17 with imputed 777,000 (777 K) SNP genotypes to identify candidate genes associated with milk FA composition. Phenotypes consisted of gas chromatography measurements of 14 FA based on winter and summer milk samples. Phenotypes and genotypes were available on 1,640 animals in winter milk, and on 1,581 animals in summer milk samples. Single-SNP analyses showed that several SNP in a region located between  29.0 and 34.0 Mbp were in strong association with C6:0, C8:0, and C10:0. This region was further characterized based on haplotypes. In summer milk samples, for example, these haplotypes explained almost 10% of the genetic variance in C6:0, 9% in C8:0, 3.5% in C10:0, 1.8% in C12:0, and 0.9% in C14:0. Two groups of haplotypes with distinct predicted effects could be defined, suggesting the presence of one causal variant. Predicted haplotype effects tended to increase from C6:0 to C14:0; however, the proportion of genetic variance explained by the  haplotypes tended to decrease from C6:0 to C14:0. This is an indication that the  quantitative trait locus (QTL) region is involved either in the elongation process or in early termination of de novo synthesized FA. Although many genes are present in this QTL region, most of these genes on BTA17 have not been characterized yet. The strongest association was found close to the progesterone  receptor membrane component 2 (PGRMC2) gene, which has not yet been associated with milk FA composition. Therefore, no clear candidate gene associated with milk FA composition could be identified for this QTL.

25257854	Identification of genomic regions associated with feed efficiency in Nelore cattle. BACKGROUND: Feed efficiency is jointly determined by productivity and feed requirements, both of which are economically relevant traits in beef cattle production systems. The objective of this study was to identify genes/QTLs associated with components of feed efficiency in Nelore cattle using Illumina BovineHD BeadChip (770 k SNP) genotypes from 593 Nelore steers. The traits analyzed included: average daily gain (ADG), dry matter intake (DMI), feed-conversion ratio (FCR), feed efficiency (FE), residual feed intake (RFI), maintenance efficiency (ME), efficiency of gain (EG), partial efficiency of growth (PEG) and relative growth rate (RGR). The Bayes B analysis was completed with Gensel software parameterized to fit fewer markers than animals. Genomic windows containing all the SNP loci in each 1 Mb that accounted for more than 1.0% of genetic variance were considered as QTL region. Candidate genes within windows that explained more than 1% of genetic variance were selected by putative function based on DAVID and Gene Ontology. RESULTS: Thirty-six QTL (1-Mb SNP window) were identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25 and 26 (UMD 3.1). The amount of genetic variance explained by individual QTL windows for feed efficiency traits ranged from 0.5% to 9.07%. Some of these QTL minimally overlapped with previously reported feed efficiency QTL for Bos taurus. The QTL regions described in this study harbor genes with biological functions related to metabolic processes, lipid and protein metabolism, generation of energy and growth. Among the positional candidate genes selected for feed efficiency are: HRH4, ALDH7A1, APOA2, LIN7C, CXADR, ADAM12 and MAP7. CONCLUSIONS: Some genomic regions and some positional candidate genes reported in this study have not been previously reported for feed efficiency traits in Bos indicus. Comparison with published results indicates that different QTLs and genes may be involved in the control of feed efficiency traits in this Nelore cattle population, as compared to Bos taurus cattle.

25273628	Whole genome association study identifies regions of the bovine genome and biological pathways involved in carcass trait performance in Holstein-Friesian cattle. BACKGROUND: Four traits related to carcass performance have been identified as economically important in beef production: carcass weight, carcass fat, carcass conformation of progeny and cull cow carcass weight. Although Holstein-Friesian cattle are primarily utilized for milk production, they are also an important source of meat for beef production and export. Because of this, there is great interest in understanding the underlying genomic structure influencing these traits. Several genome-wide association studies have identified regions of the bovine genome associated with growth or carcass traits, however, little is known  about the mechanisms or underlying biological pathways involved. This study aims  to detect regions of the bovine genome associated with carcass performance traits (employing a panel of 54,001 SNPs) using measures of genetic merit (as predicted  transmitting abilities) for 5,705 Irish Holstein-Friesian animals. Candidate genes and biological pathways were then identified for each trait under investigation. RESULTS: Following adjustment for false discovery (q-value < 0.05), 479 quantitative trait loci (QTL) were associated with at least one of the four carcass traits using a single SNP regression approach. Using a Bayesian approach, 46 QTL were associated (posterior probability > 0.5) with at least one of the four traits. In total, 557 unique bovine genes, which mapped to 426 human orthologs, were within 500kbs of QTL found associated with a trait using the Bayesian approach. Using this information, 24 significantly over-represented pathways were identified across all traits. The most significantly over-represented biological pathway was the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway. CONCLUSIONS: A large number of genomic regions putatively associated with bovine  carcass traits were detected using two different statistical approaches. Notably, several significant associations were detected in close proximity to genes with a known role in animal growth such as glucagon and leptin. Several biological pathways, including PPAR signaling, were shown to be involved in various aspects  of bovine carcass performance. These core genes and biological processes may form the foundation for further investigation to identify causative mutations involved in each trait. Results reported here support previous findings suggesting conservation of key biological processes involved in growth and metabolism.

25288516	Genome-wide association study for somatic cell score in Valdostana Red Pied cattle breed using pooled DNA. BACKGROUND: Mastitis is a major disease of dairy cattle occurring in response to  environmental exposure to infective agents with a great economic impact on dairy  industry. Somatic cell count (SCC) and its log transformation in somatic cell score (SCS) are traits that have been used as indirect measures of resistance to  mastitis for decades in selective breeding. A selective DNA pooling (SDP) approach was applied to identify Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) for SCS in Valdostana Red Pied cattle using the Illumina Bovine HD BeadChip. RESULTS: A total of 171 SNPs reached the genome-wide significance for association with SCS. Fifty-two SNPs were annotated within genes, some of those involved in the immune response to mastitis. On BTAs 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 13, 15, 17, 21 and 22 the largest number of markers in association to the trait was found. These regions identified novel genomic regions related to mastitis (1-Mb SNP windows) and confirmed those already mapped. The largest number of significant SNPs exceeding  the threshold for genome-wide significant signal was found on BTA 15, located at  50.43-51.63Mb. CONCLUSIONS: The genomic regions identified in this study contribute to a better  understanding of the genetic control of the mastitis immune response in cattle and may allow the inclusion of more detailed QTL information in selection programs.

25306138	In frame exon skipping in UBE3B is associated with developmental disorders and increased mortality in cattle. BACKGROUND: Inherited developmental diseases can cause severe animal welfare and  economic problems in dairy cattle. The use of a small number of bulls for artificial insemination (AI) carries a risk that recessive defects rapidly enrich in the population. In recent years, an increasing number of Finnish Ayrshire calves have been identified with signs of ptosis, intellectual disability, retarded growth and mortality, which constitute an inherited disorder classified  as PIRM syndrome. RESULTS: We established a cohort of nine PIRM-affected calves and 38 unaffected half-siblings and performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to map the disease to a 700-kb region on bovine chromosome 17 (p = 1.55  10-9). Whole genome re-sequencing of an unaffected carrier, its affected progeny and 43 other  unaffected animals from another breed identified a G > A substitution mutation at the last nucleotide of exon 23 in the ubiquitin protein ligase E3B encoding gene  (UBE3B). UBE3B transcript analysis revealed in-frame exon skipping in the affected animals resulting in an altered protein lacking 40 amino acids, of which 20 are located in the conserved HECT-domain, the catalytic site of the UBE3B protein. Mutation screening in 129 Ayrshire AI bulls currently used in Finland indicated a high carrier frequency (17.1%). We also found that PIRM syndrome might be connected to the recently identified AH1 haplotype, which has a frequency of 26.1% in the United States Ayrshire population. CONCLUSION: We describe PIRM syndrome in cattle, which is associated with the mutated UBE3B gene. The bovine phenotype resembles human Kaufman oculocerebrofacial syndrome, which is also caused by mutations in UBE3B. PIRM syndrome might be connected with the recently identified AH1 haplotype, which is  associated with reduced fertility in the US Ayrshire population. This study enables the development of a genetic test to efficiently reduce the high frequency of mutant UBE3B in Ayrshires, significantly improving animal health and reducing economic loss.

25330174	Genome-wide association studies using haplotypes and individual SNPs in Simmental cattle. Recent advances in high-throughput genotyping technologies have provided the opportunity to map genes using associations between complex traits and markers. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) based on either a single marker or haplotype have identified genetic variants and underlying genetic mechanisms of quantitative traits. Prompted by the achievements of studies examining economic traits in cattle and to verify the consistency of these two methods using real data, the current study was conducted to construct the haplotype structure in the bovine genome and to detect relevant genes genuinely affecting a carcass trait and a meat quality trait. Using the Illumina BovineHD BeadChip, 942 young bulls with genotyping data were introduced as a reference population to identify the genes in the beef cattle genome significantly associated with foreshank weight and triglyceride levels. In total, 92,553 haplotype blocks were detected in the genome. The regions of high linkage disequilibrium extended up to approximately 200 kb, and the size of haplotype blocks ranged from 22 bp to 199,266 bp. Additionally, the individual SNP analysis and the haplotype-based analysis detected similar regions and common SNPs for these two representative traits. A total of 12 and 7 SNPs in the bovine genome were significantly associated with foreshank weight and triglyceride levels, respectively. By comparison, 4 and 5 haplotype blocks containing the majority of significant SNPs were strongly associated with foreshank weight and triglyceride levels, respectively. In addition, 36 SNPs with high linkage disequilibrium were detected in the GNAQ gene, a potential hotspot that may play a crucial role for regulating carcass trait components.

25394207	A genome-wide association study for the incidence of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in cattle. Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) comprise a diverse group of viruses that cause disease in cattle. BVDV may establish both transient and persistent infections depending on the developmental stage of the animal at exposure. The objective was to determine whether genomic regions harboring single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) could be associated with the presence or absence of persistent BVDV infection. A genome-wide association approach based on 777,000 SNP markers was used. Samples of animals identified as positive (n = 1200) or negative (n = 1200) for the presence of BVDV in skin samples (n = 1200) were used. DNA samples were combined in 24 pools (100 animals per pool). One SNP, significant at the 5 percent genome-wide level (P = 9.41  10(-8) ), was detected on chromosome 14, located at position 80 675 176 bp. Fifteen SNPs, residing on chromosomes 1, 2, 6, 8, 10, 15 and 18, were moderately associated (P < 1  10(-5) ) with persistent BVDV infection. Results show that genes harboring or neighboring significant SNPs are involved in leucopenia, signal transduction, RNA splicing and DNA methylation processes.

25410110	QTLs associated with dry matter intake, metabolic mid-test weight, growth and feed efficiency have little overlap across 4 beef cattle studies. BACKGROUND: The identification of genetic markers associated with complex traits  that are expensive to record such as feed intake or feed efficiency would allow these traits to be included in selection programs. To identify large-effect QTL,  we performed a series of genome-wide association studies and functional analyses  using 50 K and 770 K SNP genotypes scored in 5,133 animals from 4 independent beef cattle populations (Cycle VII, Angus, Hereford and SimmentalAngus) with phenotypes for average daily gain, dry matter intake, metabolic mid-test body weight and residual feed intake. RESULTS: A total of 5, 6, 11 and 10 significant QTL (defined as 1-Mb genome windows with Bonferroni-corrected P-value<0.05) were identified for average daily gain, dry matter intake, metabolic mid-test body weight and residual feed intake, respectively. The identified QTL were population-specific and had little overlap  across the 4 populations. The pleiotropic or closely linked QTL on BTA 7 at 23 Mb identified in the Angus population harbours a promising candidate gene ACSL6 (acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 6), and was the largest effect QTL  associated with dry matter intake and mid-test body weight explaining 10.39% and  14.25% of the additive genetic variance, respectively. Pleiotropic or closely linked QTL associated with average daily gain and mid-test body weight were detected on BTA 6 at 38 Mb and BTA 7 at 93 Mb confirming previous reports. No QTL for residual feed intake explained more than 2.5% of the additive genetic variance in any population. Marker-based estimates of heritability ranged from 0.21 to 0.49 for residual feed intake across the 4 populations. CONCLUSIONS: This GWAS study, which is the largest performed for feed efficiency  and its component traits in beef cattle to date, identified several large-effect  QTL that cumulatively explained a significant percentage of additive genetic variance within each population. Differences in the QTL identified among the different populations may be due to differences in power to detect QTL, environmental variation, or differences in the genetic architecture of trait variation among breeds. These results enhance our understanding of the biology of growth, feed intake and utilisation in beef cattle.

25459910	Associations between CXCR1 polymorphisms and pathogen-specific incidence rate of  clinical mastitis, test-day somatic cell count, and test-day milk yield. The CXCR1 gene plays an important role in the innate immunity of the bovine mammary gland. Associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) CXCR1c.735C>G and c.980A>G and udder health have been identified before in small  populations. A fluorescent multiprobe PCR assay was designed specifically and validated to genotype both SNP simultaneously in a reliable and cost-effective manner. In total, 3,106 cows from 50 commercial Flemish dairy herds were genotyped using this assay. Associations between genotype and detailed phenotypic data, including pathogen-specific incidence rate of clinical mastitis (IRCM), test-day somatic cell count, and test-day milk yield (MY) were analyzed. Staphylococcus aureus IRCM tended to associate with SNP c.735C>G. Cows with genotype c.735GG had lower Staph. aureus IRCM compared with cows with genotype c.735CC (rate ratio = 0.35, 95% confidence interval = 0.140.90). Additionally, a parity-specific association between Staph. aureus IRCM and SNP c.980A>G was detected. Heifers with genotype c.980GG had a lower Staph. aureus IRCM compared with heifers with genotype c.980AG (rate ratio = 0.15, 95% confidence interval =  0.040.56). Differences were less pronounced in multiparous cows. Associations between CXCR1 genotype and somatic cell count were not detected. However, MY was  associated with SNP c.735C>G. Cows with genotype c.735GG out-produced cows with genotype c.735CC by 0.8 kg of milk/d. Results provide a basis for further research on the relation between CXCR1 polymorphism and pathogen-specific mastitis resistance and MY.

25465359	Genome-wide association study for semen volume and total number of sperm in Holstein-Friesian bulls. In artificial insemination industry bulls producing high volume of semen with relatively high concentration of sperm are very desirable since they ensure stable production of commercial straws especially in case of top bulls. The aim of the study was to screen the entire bull genome to identify markers and candidate genes underlying semen volume (SV) and total number of sperm (TNS) in ejaculate produced by Holstein-Friesian bulls. Data on semen production were retrieved from records of AI center and included a population of 877 Holstein-Friesian bulls. Each bull was genotyped using the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip. Genome-wide association analysis was performed with the use of GoldenHelix SVS7 software. An additive model for Linear Regression Analysis was used to estimate the effect of SNP marker for SV and TNS. After Bonferroni correction, 3 markers located on chromosome 22 reached the highest significance (rs41625599, rs41584616, rs42012507) for both traits. In the vicinity of these significant markers 3 genes are located (DCP1A, SFMBT1, TMEM110). Moreover, marker rs110109069 located on chromosome 25 was significantly associated with TNS and marker rs42438348 located on chromosome 10 has been found to be associated with SV. Some additional candidate genes were suggested to be potentially involved in analyzed traits (GALC, PRKCD, PHF7, TLR9, SPATA7). Identifying SNPs associated with the lower total number of sperm may be very useful for early recognition of a young sire as less suitable for effective semen production in artificial insemination centers.

25497826	Genome-wide association study for claw disorders and trimming status in dairy cattle. Performing a genome-wide association study (GWAS) might add to a better understanding of the development of claw disorders and the need for trimming. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to perform a GWAS on claw disorders and trimming status and to validate the results for claw disorders based on an independent data set. Data consisted of 20,474 cows with phenotypes for claw disorders and 50,238 cows with phenotypes for trimming status. Recorded claw disorders used in the current study were double sole (DS), interdigital hyperplasia (IH), sole hemorrhage (SH), sole ulcer (SU), white line separation (WLS), a combination of infectious claw disorders consisting of (inter-)digital dermatitis and heel erosion, and a combination of laminitis-related claw disorders (DS, SH, SU, and WLS). Of the cows with phenotypes for claw disorders,  1,771 cows were genotyped and these cow data were used for the GWAS on claw disorders. A SNP was considered significant when the false discovery rate0.05 and suggestive when the false discovery rate0.20. An independent data set of 185 genotyped bulls having at least 5 daughters with phenotypes (6,824 daughters in total) for claw disorders was used to validate significant and suggestive SNP detected based on the cow data. To analyze the trait "trimming status" (i.e., the need for claw trimming), a data set with 327 genotyped bulls having at least 5 daughters with phenotypes (18,525 daughters in total) was used. Based on the cow  data, in total 10 significant and 45 suggestive SNP were detected for claw disorders. The 10 significant SNP were associated with SU, and mainly located on  BTA8. The suggestive SNP were associated with DS, IH, SU, and laminitis-related claw disorders. Three of the suggestive SNP were validated in the data set of 185 bulls, and were located on BTA13, BTA14, and BTA17. For infectious claw disorders, SH, and WLS, no significant or suggestive SNP associations were detected. For trimming status, 1 significant and 1 suggestive SNP were detected,  both located close to each other on BTA15. Some significant and suggestive SNP were located close to SNP detected in studies on feet and leg conformation traits. Genes with major effects could not be detected and SNP associations were  spread across the genome, indicating that many SNP, each explaining a small proportion of the genetic variance, influence claw disorders. Therefore, to reduce the incidence of claw disorders by breeding, genomic selection is a promising approach.

25510969	Targeted resequencing of GWAS loci reveals novel genetic variants for milk production traits. BACKGROUND: Genome wide association study (GWAS) has been proven to be a powerful tool for detecting genomic variants associated with complex traits. However, the  specific genes and causal variants underlying these traits remain unclear. RESULTS: Here, we used target-enrichment strategy coupled with next generation sequencing technique to study target regions which were found to be associated with milk production traits in dairy cattle in our previous GWAS. Among the large amount of novel variants detected by targeted resequencing, we selected 200 SNPs  for further association study in a population consisting of 2634 cows. Sixty six  SNPs distributed in 53 genes were identified to be associated significantly with  on milk production traits. Of the 53 genes, 26 were consistent with our previous  GWAS results. We further chose 20 significant genes to analyze their mRNA expression in different tissues of lactating cows, of which 15 were specificly highly expressed in mammary gland. CONCLUSIONS: Our study illustrates the potential for identifying causal mutations for milk production traits using target-enrichment resequencing and extends the results of GWAS by discovering new and potentially functional mutations.

25511820	Genome-wide association and biological pathway analysis for milk-fat composition  in Danish Holstein and Danish Jersey cattle. BACKGROUND: The milk fat profile of the Danish Holstein (DH) and Danish Jersey (DJ) show clear differences. Identification of the genomic regions, genes and biological pathways underlying the milk fat biosynthesis will improve the understanding of the biology underlying bovine milk fat production and may provide new possibilities to change the milk fat composition by selective breeding. In this study a genome wide association scan (GWAS) in the DH and DJ was performed for a detailed milk fatty acid (FA) profile using the HD bovine SNP array and subsequently a biological pathway analysis based on the SNP data was performed. RESULTS: The GWAS identified in total 1,233 SNPs (FDR < 0.10) spread over 18 chromosomes for nine different FA traits for the DH breed and 1,122 SNPs (FDR < 0.10) spread over 26 chromosomes for 13 different FA traits were detected for the DJ breed. Of these significant SNPs, 108 SNP markers were significant in both DH  and DJ (C14-index, BTA26; C16, BTA14; fat percentage (FP), BTA14). This was supported by an enrichment test. The QTL on BTA14 and BTA26 represented the known candidate genes DGAT and SCD. In addition we suggest ACSS3 to be a good candidate gene for the QTL on BTA5 for C10:0 and C15:0. In addition, genetic correlations between the FA traits within breed showed large similarity across breeds. Furthermore, the biological pathway analysis revealed that fat digestion and absorption (KEGG04975) plays a role for the traits FP, C14:1, C16 index and C16:1. CONCLUSION: There was a clear similarity between the underlying genetics of FA in the milk between DH and DJ. This was supported by the fact that there was substantial overlap between SNPs for FP, C14 index, C14:1, C16 index and C16:1. In addition genetic correlations between FA showed a similar pattern across DH and DJ. Furthermore the biological pathway analysis suggested that fat digestion  and absorption KEGG04975 is important for the traits FP, C14:1, C16 index and C16:1.

25515556	Genomic regions influencing coat color saturation and facial markings in Fleckvieh cattle. Genomic regions associated with coat color and pigmented areas of the head were identified for Fleckvieh (dual-purpose Simmental), a red-spotted and white-headed cattle breed. Coat color was measured with a chromameter, implementing the CIELAB color space and resulting in numerical representation of lightness, color intensity, red/green and blue/yellow color components, rather than subjective classification. Single marker regression analyses with fixed effects of the sex and barn were applied, and significant regions were determined with the local false discovery rate methodology. The PMEL and ERBB3 genes on chromosome 5 were in the most significant region for the color measurements. In addition to the blue/yellow color component and color intensity, the AP3B2 gene on chromosome 21  was identified. Its function was confirmed for similar traits in a range of model species. The KIT gene on chromosome 6 was found to be strongly associated with the inhibition of circum-ocular pigmentation and pigmented spots on the cheek.

25557811	Bovine Genome-wide Association Study for Genetic Elements to Resist the Infection of Foot-and-mouth Disease in the Field. Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is a highly contagious disease affecting cloven-hoofed animals and causes severe economic loss and devastating effect on international trade of animal or animal products. Since FMD outbreaks have recently occurred in some Asian countries, it is important to understand the relationship between diverse immunogenomic structures of host animals and the immunity to foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). We performed genome wide association study based on high-density bovine single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip for identifying FMD resistant loci in Holstein cattle. Among 624532 SNP after quality control, we found that 11 SNPs on 3 chromosomes (chr17, 22, and 15) were significantly associated with the trait at the p.adjust <0.05 after PERMORY test. Most significantly associated SNPs were located on chromosome 17, around the genes Myosin XVIIIB and Seizure related 6 homolog (mouse)-like, which  were associated with lung cancer. Based on the known function of the genes nearby the significant SNPs, the FMD resistant animals might have ability to improve their innate immune response to FMDV infection.

25597874	The g.841G>C SNP of FASN gene is associated with fatty acid composition in beef cattle. The objective of the current study is to evaluate the association between fatty acid composition and fatty acid synthase gene polymorphisms as responsible mutations. For this purpose, we selected seven previously reported single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in FASN gene, including one within promoter region (g.841G>C) and six non-synonymous SNPs (g.8805C>T, g.13126C>T, g.15532A>C, g.16024A>G, g.16039C>T, g.17924A>G), and genotyped them in Japanese Black cattle. Genotyping results revealed that g.8805 C>T and g.17924 A>G were monomorphic loci. Genome-wide association analysis including the other five SNPs revealed that only g.841G>C showed significant associations with the percentages of C14:0, C14:1, C16:1 and C18:1 at 5% genome-wide significance level. In order to further  evaluate the effect, we genotyped g.841G>C using additional three populations, including two Japanese Black populations and a Holstein cattle population. g.16024A>G was also genotyped and included in the analysis because it has been reported to be associated with fatty acid composition in Japanese Black cattle. In the result of analysis of variance, g.841G>C showed stronger effects on fatty  acid percentage than those of g.16024A>G in all populations. These results suggested that g.841G>C would be a responsible mutation for fatty acid composition and contribute to production of high-grade beef as a selection marker in beef cattle.

25606404	Bovine NR1I3 gene polymorphisms and its association with feed efficiency traits in Nellore cattle. The Nuclear receptor 1 family I member 3 (NR1I3), also known as the Constitutive  Androstane Receptor (CAR), was initially characterized as a key regulator of xenobiotic metabolism. However, recent biochemical and structural data suggest that NR1I3 is activated in response to metabolic and nutritional stress in a ligand-independent manner. Thus, we prospected the Bovine NR1I3 gene for polymorphisms and studied their association with feed efficiency traits in Nellore cattle. First, 155 purebred Nellore bulls were individually measured for  Residual Feed Intake (RFI) and the 25 best (High Feed Efficiency group, HFE) and  the 25 worst animals (Low Feed Efficiency group, LFE) were selected for DNA extraction. The entire Bovine NR1I3 gene was amplified and polymorphisms were identified by sequencing. Then, one SNP different between HFE and LFE groups was  genotyped in all the 155 animals and in another 288 animals totalizing 443 Nellore bulls genotyped for association of NR1I3 SNPs with feed efficiency traits. We found 24 SNPs in the NR1I3 gene and choose a statistically different SNP between HFE and LFE groups for further analysis. Genotyping of the 155 animals showed a significant association within SNP and RFI (p=0.04), Residual  Intake and BW Gain (p=0.04) and Dry Matter Intake (p=0.01). This SNP is located in the 5'flanking promoter region of NR1I3 gene and different alleles alter the binding site for predicted transcriptional factors as HNF4alpha, CREM and c-MYB, leading us to conclude that NR1I3 expression and regulation might be important to feed efficiency.

25606458	Characterization of the bovine gene LIPE and possible influence on fatty acid composition of meat. LIPE is an intracellular neutral lipase, which is capable of hydrolyzing a variety of esters and plays a key role in the mobilization of fatty acids from diacylglycerols. The objectives of this study were to characterize the genetic polymorphism of bovine LIPE gene and to evaluate the possible association between three SNPs in the coding regions of this gene with the fatty acid composition of  meat in a cattle population. Forty-three unrelated animals from different cattle  breeds were re-sequenced and 21 SNPs were detected over approximately 2600bp, five of these SNPs were novel. Three SNPs were selected, on the basis of evolutionary conservation, to perform validation and association studies in a crossbred cattle population. Our results may suggest a possible association of SNP1 with contents of oleic acid and total monounsaturated fatty acids (p<0.01), and SNP2 and SNP3 with Heneicosylic acid content (p<0.01), may be helpful to improve the quality of meat and improve health.

25643727	Wingless-type MMTV integration site family member 2 (WNT2) gene is associated with resistance to MAP in faecal culture and antibody response in Holstein cattle. Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) is a pathogenic bacterium responsible for the lethal Johne's disease in cattle. So far, several genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been carried out to identify chromosomal regions  highly associated with Johne's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate  the genetic variability within a pool of seven genes (LAMB1, DLD, WNT2, PRDM1, SOCS5, PTGER4 and IL10) indicated by former GWAS/RNA-Seq studies as putatively associated with MAP infections and to achieve a confirmation study of association with paratuberculosis susceptibility in a population of 324 German Holstein cattle (162 cases MAP positive and 162 controls MAP negative) using ELISA and fecal cultural tests. SNP validation and genotyping information are provided, quick methods for allelic discrimination were set up and transcription factor binding analyses were performed. The rs43390642:G>TSNP in the WNT2 promoter region is associated with paratuberculosis susceptibility (P = 0.013), suggesting a protective role of the T allele (P = 0.043; odds ratio 0.50 [0.25-0.97]). The linkage disequilibrium with the DLD rs134692583:A>T might suggest a combined mechanism of action of these neighboring genes in resistance to MAP infection, which is also supported by a significant effect shown by the haplotype DLD(T) /WNT2(T) (P = 0.047). In silico analysis predicted rs43390642:G>T and rs134692583:A>T as essential parts of binding sites for the transcription factors GR, C/EBP and GATA-1, hence suggesting a potential influence on WNT2 and DLD gene expression. This study confirmed the region on BTA 4 (UMD 3.1: 50639460-51397892) as involved in tolerance/resistance to Johne's disease. In addition, this study clarifies the involvement of the investigated genes in MAP infection and contributes to the understanding of genetic variability involved in Johne's disease susceptibility.

25656186	Polymorphisms in epigenetic and meat quality related genes in fourteen cattle breeds and association with beef quality and carcass traits. Improvement for carcass traits related to beef quality is the key concern in beef production. Recent reports found that epigenetics mediates the interaction of individuals with environment and nutrition. The present study was designed to analyze the genetic effect of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in seven epigenetic-related genes (DNMT1, DNMT3a, DNMT3b, DNMT3L, Ago1, Ago2, and HDAC5) and two meat quality candidate genes (CAPN1 and PRKAG3) on fourteen carcass traits related to beef quality in a Snow Dragon beef population, and also to identify SNPs in a total of fourteen cattle populations. Sixteen SNPs were identified and genotyped in 383 individuals sampled from the 14 cattle breeds, which included 147 samples from the Snow Dragon beef population. Data analysis showed significant association of 8 SNPs within 4 genes related to carcass and/or meat quality traits in the beef populations. SNP1 (13154420A>G) in exon 17 of DNMT1 was significantly associated with rib-eye width and lean meat color score (p<0.05). A novel SNP (SNP4, 76198537A>G) of DNMT3a was significantly associated  with six beef quality traits. Those individuals with the wild-type genotype AA of DNMT3a showed an increase in carcass weight, chilled carcass weight, flank thicknesses, chuck short rib thickness, chuck short rib score and in chuck flap weight in contrast to the GG genotype. Five out of six SNPs in DNMT3b gene were significantly associated with three beef quality traits. SNP15 (45219258C>T) in CAPN1 was significantly associated with chuck short rib thickness and lean meat color score (p<0.05). The significant effect of SNP15 on lean meat color score individually and in combination with each of other 14 SNPs qualify this SNP to be used as potential marker for improving the trait. In addition, the frequencies of most wild-type alleles were higher than those of the mutant alleles in the native and foreign cattle breeds. Seven SNPs were identified in the epigenetic-related genes. The SNP15 in CAPN1 could be used as a powerful genetic marker in selection programs for beef quality improvement in the Snow Dragon Beef population.

25658712	A genome-wide association study for clinical mastitis in first parity US Holstein cows using single-step approach and genomic matrix re-weighting procedure. Clinical mastitis (CM) is one of the health disorders with large impacts on dairy farming profitability and animal welfare. The objective of this study was to perform a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for CM in first-lactation Holstein. Producer-recorded mastitis event information for 103,585 first-lactation cows were used, together with genotype information on 1,361 bulls from the Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip. Single-step genomic-BLUP methodology was  used to incorporate genomic data into a threshold-liability model. Association analysis confirmed that CM follows a highly polygenic mode of inheritance. However, 10-adjacent-SNP windows showed that regions on chromosomes 2, 14 and 20  have impacts on genetic variation for CM. Some of the genes located on chromosome 14 (LY6K, LY6D, LYNX1, LYPD2, SLURP1, PSCA) are part of the lymphocyte-antigen-6  complex (LY6) known for its neutrophil regulation function linked to the major histocompatibility complex. Other genes on chromosome 2 were also involved in regulating immune response (IFIH1, LY75, and DPP4), or are themselves regulated in the presence of specific pathogens (ITGB6, NR4A2). Other genes annotated on chromosome 20 are involved in mammary gland metabolism (GHR, OXCT1), antibody production and phagocytosis of bacterial cells (C6, C7, C9, C1QTNF3), tumor suppression (DAB2), involution of mammary epithelium (OSMR) and cytokine regulation (PRLR). DAVID enrichment analysis revealed 5 KEGG pathways. The JAK-STAT signaling pathway (cell proliferation and apoptosis) and the 'Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction' (cytokine and interleukines response to  infectious agents) are co-regulated and linked to the 'ABC transporters' pathway  also found here. Gene network analysis performed using GeneMania revealed a co-expression network where 665 interactions existed among 145 of the genes reported above. Clinical mastitis is a complex trait and the different genes regulating immune response are known to be pathogen-specific. Despite the lack of information in this study, candidate QTL for CM were identified in the US Holstein population.

25670729	Polymorphisms within the APOBR gene are highly associated with milk levels of prognostic ketosis biomarkers in dairy cows. Essentially all high-yielding dairy cows experience a negative energy balance during early lactation leading to increased lipomobilization, which is a normal physiological response. However, a severe energy deficit may lead to high levels  of ketone bodies and, subsequently, to subclinical or clinical ketosis. It has previously been reported that the ratio of glycerophosphocholine to phosphocholine in milk is a prognostic biomarker for the risk of ketosis in dairy cattle. It was hypothesized that this ratio reflects the ability to break down blood phosphatidylcholine as a fatty acid resource. In the current study, 248 animals from a previous study were genotyped with Illumina BovineSNP50 BeadChip,  and genome-wide association studies were carried out for the milk levels of phosphocholine, glycerophosphocholine, and the ratio of both metabolites. It was  demonstrated that the latter two traits are heritable with h2 = 0.43 and h2 = 0.34, respectively. A major quantitative trait locus was identified on cattle chromosome 25. The APOBR gene, coding for the apolipoprotein B receptor, is located within this region and was analyzed as a candidate gene. The analysis revealed highly significant associations of polymorphisms within the gene with glycerophosphocholine as well as the metabolite ratio. These findings support the hypothesis that differences in the ability to take up blood phosphatidylcholine from low-density lipoproteins play an important role in early lactation metabolic stability of dairy cows and indicate APOBR to contain a causative variant.

10491763	Hepatocyte nuclear factor-6: associations between genetic variability and type II diabetes and between genetic variability and estimates of insulin secretion. The transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor (HNF)-6 is an upstream regulator of several genes involved in the pathogenesis of maturity-onset diabetes of the young. We therefore tested the hypothesis that variability in the HNF-6 gene is associated with subsets of Type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus and estimates of insulin secretion in glucose tolerant subjects.   We cloned the coding region as well as the intron-exon boundaries of the HNF-6 gene. We then examined them on genomic DNA in six MODY probands without mutations in the MODY1, MODY3 and MODY4 genes and in 54 patients with late-onset Type II diabetes by combined single strand conformational polymorphism-heteroduplex analysis followed by direct sequencing of identified variants. An identified missense variant was examined in association studies and genotype-phenotype studies.   We identified two silent and one missense (Pro75 Ala) variant. In an association study the allelic frequency of the Pro75Ala polymorphism was 3.2% (95% confidence interval, 1.9-4.5) in 330 patients with Type II diabetes mellitus compared with 4.2% (2.4-6.0) in 238 age-matched glucose tolerant control subjects. Moreover, in studies of 238 middle-aged glucose tolerant subjects, of 226 glucose tolerant offspring of Type II diabetic patients and of 367 young healthy subjects, the carriers of the polymorphism did not differ from non-carriers in glucose induced serum insulin or C-peptide responses.   Mutations in the coding region of the HNF-6 gene are not associated with Type II diabetes or with changes in insulin responses to glucose among the Caucasians examined.

10661407	Langerin, a novel C-type lectin specific to Langerhans cells, is an endocytic receptor that induces the formation of Birbeck granules. We have identified a type II Ca2+-dependent lectin displaying mannose-binding specificity, exclusively expressed by Langerhans cells (LC), and named Langerin. LC are uniquely characterized by Birbeck granules (BG), which are organelles consisting of superimposed and zippered membranes. Here, we have shown that Langerin is constitutively associated with BG and that antibody to Langerin is internalized into these structures. Remarkably, transfection of Langerin cDNA into fibroblasts created a compact network of membrane structures with typical features of BG. Langerin is thus a potent inducer of membrane superimposition and zippering leading to BG formation. Our data suggest that induction of BG is a consequence of the antigen-capture function of Langerin, allowing routing into these organelles and providing access to a nonclassical antigen-processing pathway.

10788334	Founder mutations in the BRCA1 gene in Polish families with breast-ovarian cancer. We have undertaken a hospital-based study, to identify possible BRCA1 and BRCA2 founder mutations in the Polish population. The study group consisted of 66 Polish families with cancer who have at least three related females affected with breast or ovarian cancer and who had cancer diagnosed, in at least one of the three affected females, at age < 50 years. A total of 26 families had both breast and ovarian cancers, 4 families had ovarian cancers only, and 36 families had breast cancers only. Genomic DNA was prepared from the peripheral blood leukocytes of at least one affected woman from each family. The entire coding region of BRCA1 and BRCA2 was screened for the presence of germline mutations, by use of SSCP followed by direct sequencing of observed variants. Mutations were found in 35 (53%) of the 66 families studied. All but one of the mutations were detected within the BRCA1 gene. BRCA1 abnormalities were identified in all four families with ovarian cancer only, in 67% of 27 families with both breast and ovarian cancer, and in 34% of 35 families with breast cancer only. The single family with a BRCA2 mutation had the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome. Seven distinct mutations were identified; five of these occurred in two or more families. In total, recurrent mutations were found in 33 (94%) of the 35 families with detected mutations. Three BRCA1 abnormalities - 5382insC, C61G, and 4153delA - accounted for 51%, 20%, and 11% of the identified mutations, respectively.. 

11009181	Apomorphine: an underutilized therapy for Parkinson's disease. Apomorphine was the first dopaminergic drug ever used to treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease. While powerful antiparkinsonian effects had been observed as early as 1951, the potential of treating fluctuating Parkinson's disease by subcutaneous administration of apomorphine has only recently become the subject of systematic study. A number of small scale clinical trials have unequivocally shown that intermittent subcutaneous apomorphine injections produce antiparkinsonian benefit close if not identical to that seen with levodopa and that apomorphine rescue injections can reliably revert off-periods even in patients with complex on-off motor swings. Continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusions can reduce daily off-time by more than 50% in this group of patients, which appears to be a stronger effect than that generally seen with add-on therapy with oral dopamine agonists or COMT inhibitors. Extended follow-up studies of up to 8 years have demonstrated long-term persistence of apomorphine efficacy. In addition, there is convincing clinical evidence that monotherapy with continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusions is associated with marked reductions of preexisting levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The main side effects of subcutaneous apomorphine treatment are related to cutaneous tolerability problems, whereas sedation and psychiatric complications play a lesser role. Given the marked degree of efficacy of subcutaneous apomorphine treatment in fluctuating Parkinson's disease, this approach seems to deserve more widespread clinical use.

11054569	Rab6c, a new member of the rab gene family, is involved in drug resistance in MCF7/AdrR cells. A new Rab6 homolog cDNA, Rab6c, was discovered by a hypermethylated DNA fragment probe that was isolated from a human multidrug resistant (MDR) breast cancer cell line, MCF7/AdrR, by the methylation sensitive-representational difference analysis (MS-RDA) technique. Rab6c was found to be under-expressed in MCF7/AdrR and MES-SA/Dx5 (a human MDR uterine sarcoma cell line) compared with their non-MDR parental cell lines. MCF7/AdrR cells expressing the exogenous Rab6c exhibited less resistance to several anti-cancer drugs, such as doxorubicin (DOX), taxol, vinblastine, and vincristine, than the control cells containing the empty vector. Flow cytometry experiments confirmed that the transfectants' diminished resistance to DOX was caused by increased drug accumulation induced by the exogenous Rab6c. These results indicate that Rab6c is involved in drug resistance in MCF7/AdrR cells.

11773892	End-stage renal disease (ESRD) after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) using calcineurin-based immunotherapy: risk of development and treatment. BACKGROUND: The calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus are both known to be nephrotoxic. Their use in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTX) has dramatically improved success rates. Recently, however, we have had an increase of patients who are presenting after OLTX with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This retrospective study examines the incidence and treatment of ESRD and chronic renal failure (CRF) in OLTX patients. METHODS: Patients receiving an OLTX only from June 1985 through December of 1994 who survived 6 months postoperatively were studied (n=834). Our prospectively collected database was the source of information. Patients were divided into three groups: Controls, no CRF or ESRD, n=748; CRF, sustained serum creatinine >2.5 mg/dl, n=41; and ESRD, n=45. Groups were compared for preoperative laboratory variables, diagnosis, postoperative variables, survival, type of ESRD therapy, and survival from onset of ESRD. RESULTS: At 13 years after OLTX, the incidence of severe renal dysfunction was 18.1% (CRF 8.6% and ESRD 9.5%). Compared with control patients, CRF and ESRD patients had higher preoperative serum creatinine levels, a greater percentage of patients with hepatorenal syndrome, higher percentage requirement for dialysis in the first 3 months postoperatively, and a higher 1-year serum creatinine. Multivariate stepwise logistic regression analysis using preoperative and postoperative variables identified that an increase of serum creatinine compared with average at 1 year, 3 months, and 4 weeks postoperatively were independent risk factors for the development of CRF or ESRD with odds ratios of 2.6, 2.2, and 1.6, respectively. Overall survival from the time of OLTX was not significantly different among groups, but by year 13, the survival of the patients who had ESRD was only 28.2% compared with 54.6% in the control group. Patients developing ESRD had a 6-year survival after onset of ESRD of 27% for the patients receiving hemodialysis versus 71.4% for the patients developing ESRD who subsequently received kidney transplants. CONCLUSIONS: Patients who are more than 10 years post-OLTX have CRF and ESRD at a high rate. The development of ESRD decreases survival, particularly in those patients treated with dialysis only. Patients who develop ESRD have a higher preoperative and 1-year serum creatinine and are more likely to have hepatorenal syndrome. However, an increase of serum creatinine at various times postoperatively is more predictive of the development of CRF or ESRD. New strategies for long-term immunosuppression may be needed to decrease this complication.

12442272	D90A-SOD1 mediated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: a single founder for all cases with evidence for a Cis-acting disease modifier in the recessive haplotype. More than 100 different heterozygous mutations in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) have been found in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a fatal neurodegenerative disease. Uniquely, D90A-SOD1 has been identified in recessive, dominant and apparently sporadic pedigrees. The phenotype of homozygotes is stereotyped with an extended survival, whereas that of affected heterozygotes varies. The frequency of D90A-SOD1 is 50 times higher in Scandinavia (2.5%) than elsewhere, though ALS prevalence is not raised there. Our earlier study indicated separate founders for recessive and dominant/sporadic ALS and we proposed a disease-modifying factor linked to the recessive mutation. Here we have doubled our sample set and employed novel markers to characterise the mutation's origin and localise any modifying factor. Linkage disequilibrium analysis indicates that D90A homozygotes and heterozygotes share a rare haplotype and are all descended from a single ancient founder (alpha 0.974) c.895 generations ago. Homozygotes arose subsequently only c.63 generations ago (alpha 0.878). Recombination has reduced the region shared by recessive kindreds to 97-265 kb around SOD1, excluding all neighbouring genes. We propose that a cis-acting regulatory polymorphism has arisen close to D90A-SOD1 in the recessive founder, which decreases ALS susceptibility in heterozygotes and slows disease progression.

1353340	Late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy: molecular pathology in two siblings. We report on a new allele at the arylsulfatase A (ARSA) locus causing late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). In that allele arginine84, a residue that is highly conserved in the arylsulfatase gene family, is replaced by glutamine. In contrast to alleles that cause early-onset MLD, the arginine84 to glutamine substitution is associated with some residual ARSA activity. A comparison of genotypes, ARSA activities, and clinical data on 4 individuals carrying the allele of 81 patients with MLD examined, further validates the concept that different degrees of residual ARSA activity are the basis of phenotypical variation in MLD.. 

14722929	Low frequency of deafness-associated GJB2 variants in Kenya and Sudan and novel GJB2 variants. A large proportion of non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness (NSARD) in many populations is caused by variants of the GJB2 gene. Here, the frequency of GJB2 variants was studied in 406 and 183 apparently unrelated children from Kenya and Sudan, respectively, with mostly severe to profound non-syndromic deafness. Nine (2.2 %) Kenyan and 12 (6.6 %) of the Sudanese children only were carriers of variants within the coding sequence of the GJB2 gene. Variants in the 5'-adjacent region were detected in further 115 individuals. A total of 10 novel variants was recognized, among them four variants in the adjacent 5'-region of the GJB2 coding exon 2 (g.3318-6T>A, g.3318-15C>T, g.3318-34C>T, g.3318-35T>G), a 6 base-pair deletion (g.3455_3460del [p.Asp46_Gln48delinsGlu]), a variant leading to a stop codon (g.3512C>A [p.Tyr65X]), synonymous variants (g.3395C>T [p.Thr26], g.3503C>T [p.Asn62], g.3627A>C [p.Arg104]), and one non-synonymous variant (g.3816C>A [p.Val167Met]). In addition, the previously described variants g.3352delG (commonly designated 30delG or 35 delG), g.3426G>A [p.Val37Ile], g.3697G>A [p.Arg127His], g.3774G>A [p.Val153Ile], and g.3795G>A [p.Gly160Ser] were identified. With the exception of g.3318-34C>T and g.3352delG, all variants occurred heterozygously. For most of the variants identified in the Kenyan and Sudanese study population, a causative association with NSARD appears to be unlikely. Compared to many other ethnic groups, deafness-associated variants of the coding region of GJB2 are rare in Sudan and Kenya, suggesting a role of other genetic, or epigenetic factors as a cause for deafness in these countries.

15099351	Mutations in the PCSK9 gene in Norwegian subjects with autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is at a locus for autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia, and recent data indicate that the PCSK9 gene is involved in cholesterol biosynthesis. Mutations within this gene have previously been found to segregate with hypercholesterolemia. In this study, DNA sequencing of the 12 exons of the PCSK9 gene has been performed in 51 Norwegian subjects with a clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolemia where mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene and mutation R3500Q in the apolipoprotein B-100 gene had been excluded. Two novel missense mutations were detected in the catalytic subdomain of the PCSK9 gene. Two patients were heterozygotes for D374Y, and one patient was a double heterozygote for D374Y and N157K. D374Y segregated with hypercholesterolemia in the two former families where family members were available for study. Our findings support the notion that mutations in the PCSK9 gene cause autosomal dominant hypercholesterolemia.

15122708	Desmin-related myopathy with Mallory body-like inclusions is caused by mutations of the selenoprotein N gene. Desmin-related myopathies (DRMs) are a heterogeneous group of muscle disorders, morphologically defined by intrasarcoplasmic aggregates of desmin. Mutations in the desmin and the alpha-B crystallin genes account for approximately one third of the DRM cases. The genetic basis of the other forms remain unknown, including the early-onset, recessive form with Mallory body-like inclusions (MB-DRMs), first described in five related German patients. Recently, we identified the selenoprotein N gene (SEPN1) as responsible for SEPN-related myopathy (SEPN-RM), a unique early-onset myopathy formerly divided in two different nosological categories: rigid spine muscular dystrophy and the severe form of classical multiminicore disease. The finding of Mallory body-like inclusions in two cases of genetically documented SEPN-RM led us to suspect a relationship between MB-DRM and SEPN1. In the original MB-DRM German family, we demonstrated a linkage of the disease to the SEPN1 locus (1p36), and subsequently a homozygous SEPN1 deletion (del 92 nucleotide -19/+73) in the affected patients. A comparative reevaluation showed that MB-DRM and SEPN-RM share identical clinical features. Therefore, we propose that MB-DRM should be categorized as SEPN-RM. These findings substantiate the molecular heterogeneity of DRM, expand the morphological spectrum of SEPN-RM, and implicate a necessary reassessment of the nosological boundaries in early-onset myopathies.

15177686	Altered replication timing of the HIRA/Tuple1 locus in the DiGeorge and Velocardiofacial syndromes. DiGeorge and Velocardiofacial syndromes (DGS/VCFS) are endowed by a similar complex phenotype including cardiovascular, craniofacial, and thymic malformations, and are associated with heterozygous deletions of 22q11 chromosomal band. The Typically Deleted Region in the 22q11.21 subband (here called TDR22) is very gene-dense, and the extent of the deletion has been defined precisely in several studies. However, to date there is no evidence for a mechanism of haploinsufficiency that can fully explain the DGS/VCFS phenotype. In this study, we show that the candidate gene HIRA/Tuple1 mapping on the non-deleted TDR22, in DGS/VCFS subjects presents a delayed replication timing. Moreover, we observed an increase in the cell ratio showing the HIRA/Tuple1 locus localised toward the nuclear periphery. It is known that replication timing and nuclear location are generally correlated to the transcription activity of the relative DNA region. We propose that the alteration in the replication/nuclear location pattern of the non-deleted TDR22 indicates an altered gene regulation hence an altered transcritpion in DGS/VCFS.

15188772	Severe reversible left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction due to accidental iatrogenic epinephrine overdose. Catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy due to chronic excess of endogenous catecholamines has been recognized for decades as a clinical phenomenon. In contrast, reports of myocardial dysfunction due to acute iatrogenic overdose are rare. A 35-year-old woman whose cervix uteri was inadvertently injected with 8 mg of epinephrine developed myocardial stunning that was characterized by severe hemodynamic compromise, profound, albeit transient, left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and only modestly elevated biochemical markers of myocardial necrosis. Our case illustrates the serious consequences of medical errors that can be avoided through improved medication labeling and staff supervision.

15266215	Effects of the cyclooxygenase-2 specific inhibitor valdecoxib versus nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents and placebo on cardiovascular thrombotic events in patients with arthritis. There have been concerns that the risk of cardiovascular thrombotic events may be higher with cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-specific inhibitors than nonselective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We evaluated cardiovascular event data for valdecoxib, a new COX-2-specific inhibitor in approximately 8000 patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis treated with this agent in randomized clinical trials. The incidence of cardiovascular thrombotic events (cardiac, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular, or arterial thrombotic) was determined by analyzing pooled valdecoxib (10-80 mg daily), nonselective NSAID (diclofenac 75 mg bid, ibuprofen 800 mg tid, or naproxen 500 mg bid) and placebo data from 10 randomized osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis trials that were 6-52 weeks in duration. The incidence rates of events were determined in all patients (n = 7934) and in users of low-dose (< or =325 mg daily) aspirin (n = 1051) and nonusers of aspirin (n = 6883). Crude and exposure-adjusted incidences of thrombotic events were similar for valdecoxib, NSAIDs, and placebo. The risk of serious thrombotic events was also similar for each valdecoxib dose. Thrombotic risk was consistently higher for users of aspirin users than nonusers of aspirin (placebo, 1.4% vs. 0%; valdecoxib, 1.7% vs. 0.2%; NSAIDs, 1.9% vs. 0.5%). The rates of events in users of aspirin were similar for all 3 treatment groups and across valdecoxib doses. Short- and intermediate-term treatment with therapeutic (10 or 20 mg daily) and supratherapeutic (40 or 80 mg daily) valdecoxib doses was not associated with an increased incidence of thrombotic events relative to nonselective NSAIDs or placebo in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis patients in controlled clinical trials.

16005363	Identification of a novel WFS1 mutation (AFF344-345ins) in Japanese patients with Wolfram syndrome. Wolfram syndrome (WFS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by early onset diabetes mellitus, progressive optic atrophy, sensorineural deafness and diabetes insipidus. Affected individuals may also have renal tract abnormalities as well as neurogical and psychiatric syndromes. WFS1 encoding a transmembrane protein was identified as the gene responsible for WFS. We report herein a Japanese family, of which two members had this syndrome. In the WFS1 gene of these patients, we identified a novel mutation, a nine nucleotide insertion (AFF344-345ins). In addition, one of these patients had preclinical hypopituitarism, which is an unusual feature of WFS. As only the two family members homozygous for the mutation showed WFS, these data support the notion that this mutation is the cause of WFS.

16200390	A genetic analysis of serotonergic biosynthetic and metabolic enzymes in migraine using a DNA pooling approach. Migraine is a common debilitating primary headache disorder with significant mental, physical and social health implications. The brain neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) is involved in nociceptive pathways and has been implicated in the pathophysiology of migraine. With few genetic studies investigating biosynthetic and metabolic enzymes governing the rate of 5-HT activity and their relationship to migraine, it was the objective of this study to assess genetic variants within the human tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) and monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) genes in migraine susceptibility. This objective was undertaken using a high-throughput DNA pooling experimental design, which proved to be a very accurate, sensitive and specific method of estimating allele frequencies for single nucleotide polymorphism, insertion deletion and variable number tandem repeat loci. Application of DNA pooling to a wide array of genetic loci provides greater scope in the assessment of population-based genetic association study designs. Despite the application of this high-throughput genotyping method, negative results from the two-stage DNA pooling design used to screen loci within the TPH, AADC and MAOA genes did not support their role in migraine susceptibility.

16369751	5-Fluorouracil cardiotoxicity induced by alpha-fluoro-beta-alanine. Cardiotoxicity is a rare complication occurring during 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment for malignancies. We herein report the case of a 70-year-old man with 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity, in whom a high serum level of alpha-fluoro-beta-alanine (FBAL) was observed. The patient, who had unresectable colon cancer metastases to the liver and lung, was referred to us for chemotherapy from an affiliated hospital; he had no cardiac history. After admission, the patient received a continuous intravenous infusion of 5-FU (1000 mg/day), during which precordial pain with right bundle branch block occurred concomitantly with a high serum FBAL concentration of 1955 ng/ml. Both the precordial pain and the electrocardiographic changes disappeared spontaneously after the discontinuation of 5-FU. As the precordial pain in this patient was considered to have been due to 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity, the administration of 5-FU was abandoned. Instead, oral administration of S-1 (a derivative of 5-FU), at 200 mg/day twice a week, was instituted, because S-1 has a strong inhibitory effect on dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the degradative of 5-FU into FBAL. The serum FBAL concentration subsequently decreased to 352 ng/ml, the same as the value measured on the first day of S-1 administration. Thereafter, no cardiac symptoms were observed. The patient achieved a partial response 6 months after the initiation of the S-1 treatment. The experience of this case, together with a review of the literature, suggests that FBAL is related to 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity. S-1 may be administered safely to patients with 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity.

16596970	Pilocarpine seizures cause age-dependent impairment in auditory location discrimination. Children who have status epilepticus have continuous or rapidly repeating seizures that may be life-threatening and may cause life-long changes in brain and behavior. The extent to which status epilepticus causes deficits in auditory discrimination is unknown. A naturalistic auditory location discrimination method was used to evaluate this question using an animal model of status epilepticus. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with saline on postnatal day (P) 20, or a convulsant dose of pilocarpine on P20 or P45. Pilocarpine on either day induced status epilepticus; status epilepticus at P45 resulted in CA3 cell loss and spontaneous seizures, whereas P20 rats had no cell loss or spontaneous seizures. Mature rats were trained with sound-source location and sound-silence discriminations. Control (saline P20) rats acquired both discriminations immediately. In status epilepticus (P20) rats, acquisition of the sound-source location discrimination was moderately impaired. Status epilepticus (P45) rats failed to acquire either sound-source location or sound-silence discriminations. Status epilepticus in rat causes an age-dependent, long-term impairment in auditory discrimination. This impairment may explain one cause of impaired auditory location discrimination in humans.

17000021	No independent role of the -1123 G>C and+2740 A>G variants in the association of PTPN22 with type 1 diabetes and juvenile idiopathic arthritis in two Caucasian populations. INTRODUCTION: The PTPN22 is a negative regulator of the T cell response. Its +1858C>T (R620W) polymorphism has been shown to associate with a risk for multiple autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes (T1D) and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). The minor (susceptibility) allele is absent in Asian populations, but a recent study suggested an independent involvement of another polymorphism located within the promoter -1123 nucleotides relative to the translational start site. AIMS: We aimed to analyse the association of three PTPN22 polymorphisms in two distinct Caucasian populations, the Czechs (with T1D and with JIA) and Azeri (with T1D). METHODS: The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) at positions -1123 (rs2488457), +1858 (rs2476601, the R620W substitution), and +2740 (rs1217412) were genotyped using TaqMan assays in 372 subjects with childhood-onset T1D, 130 subjects with JIA, and 400 control subjects of Czech origin, and in 160 subjects with T1D and 271 healthy controls of Azeri origin. RESULTS: In the Czechs, all three SNPs were in a tight linkage disequlibrium, while in the Azeri, the linkage disequlibrium was limited to between the promoter and 3'-UTR polymorphism, D'(-1123, +2740)=0.99, r(2)=0.72. Haplotype reconstruction via the expectation-maximization algorithm showed in both populations that only the haplotype containing the minor (W) allele at codon 620 was associated with T1D (OR=2.26, 95% CI 1.68-3.02 in Czechs, OR=14.8, 95% CI 2.0-651 in Azeri) or JIA (OR=2.43, 95% CI 1.66-3.56 in Czechs). The haplotypes having the wild-type (R) allele at codon 620 and minor alleles at -1123 and/or +2740 were neutral as to the risk of autoimmune conditions in both populations. CONCLUSIONS: In two different Caucasian populations, the Czechs and the Azeri, no independent contribution can be detected either of the -1123 promoter SNP or the +2740 3'-UTR SNP, and only the minor allele at PTPN22 codon 620 contributes to the risk of autoimmunity.

17006606	A polymorphism of C-to-T substitution at -31 IL1B is associated with the risk of advanced gastric adenocarcinoma in a Japanese population. Proinflammatory cytokine gene polymorphisms have been demonstrated to associate with gastric cancer risk, of which IL1B-31T/C and -511C/T changes have been well investigated due to the possibility that they may alter the IL1B transcription. The signal transduction target upon interleukin 1 beta (IL1beta) stimulation, the nuclear factor of kappa B (NFkappaB) activation, supports cancer development, signal transduction in which is mediated by FS-7 cell-associated cell surface antigen (FAS) signaling. Based on recent papers describing the prognostic roles of the polymorphisms and the NFkappaB functions on cancer development, we sought to determine if Japanese gastric cancer patients were affected by the IL1B -31/-511 and FAS-670 polymorphisms. A case-control study was conducted on incident gastric adenocarcinoma patients (n=271) and age-gender frequency-matched control subjects (n=271). We observed strong linkage disequilibrium between the T allele at -511 and the C allele at -31 and between the C allele at -511 and the T allele at -31 in IL1B in both the cases and controls (R (2)=0.94). Neither IL1B-31, -511 nor FAS-670 polymorphisms showed significantly different risks of gastric adenocarcinoma. Though FAS-670 polymorphisms did not show any significant difference, the proportion of subjects with IL1B-31TT (or IL1B-511CC) increased according to stage (trend P=0.019). In particular, subjects with stage IV had a two times higher probability of having either IL1B-31TT (or IL1B-511CC) genotype compared with stage I subjects. These observations suggest that IL1B-31TT and IL1B-511CC are associated with disease progression.

17035713	Chloroacetaldehyde as a sulfhydryl reagent: the role of critical thiol groups in ifosfamide nephropathy. Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is a metabolite of the alkylating agent ifosfamide (IFO) and putatively responsible for renal damage following anti-tumor therapy with IFO. Depletion of sulfhydryl (SH) groups has been reported from cell culture, animal and clinical studies. In this work the effect of CAA on human proximal tubule cells in primary culture (hRPTEC) was investigated. Toxicity of CAA was determined by protein content, cell number, LDH release, trypan blue exclusion assay and caspase-3 activity. Free thiols were measured by the method of Ellman. CAA reduced hRPTEC cell number and protein, induced a loss in free intracellular thiols and an increase in necrosis markers. CAA but not acrolein inhibited the cysteine proteases caspase-3, caspase-8 and cathepsin B. Caspase activation by cisplatin was inhibited by CAA. In cells stained with fluorescent dyes targeting lysosomes, CAA induced an increase in lysosomal size and lysosomal leakage. The effects of CAA on cysteine protease activities and thiols could be reproduced in cell lysate. Acidification, which slowed the reaction of CAA with thiol donors, could also attenuate effects of CAA on necrosis markers, thiol depletion and cysteine protease inhibition in living cells. Thus, CAA directly reacts with cellular protein and non-protein thiols, mediating its toxicity on hRPTEC. This effect can be reduced by acidification. Therefore, urinary acidification could be an option to prevent IFO nephropathy in patients.

1711760	Delayed institution of hypertension during focal cerebral ischemia: effect on brain edema. The effect of induced hypertension instituted after a 2-h delay following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) on brain edema formation and histochemical injury was studied. Under isoflurane anesthesia, the MCA of 14 spontaneously hypertensive rats was occluded. In the control group (n = 7), the mean arterial pressure (MAP) was not manipulated. In the hypertensive group (n = 7), the MAP was elevated by 25-30 mm Hg beginning 2 h after MCAO. Four hours after MCAO, the rats were killed and the brains harvested. The brains were sectioned along coronal planes spanning the distribution of ischemia produced by MCAO. Specific gravity (SG) was determined in the subcortex and in two sites in the cortex (core and periphery of the ischemic territory). The extent of neuronal injury was determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium staining. In the ischemic core, there was no difference in SG in the subcortex and cortex in the two groups. In the periphery of the ischemic territory, SG in the cortex was greater (less edema accumulation) in the hypertensive group (1.041 +/- 0.001 vs 1.039 +/- 0.001, P less than 0.05). The area of histochemical injury (as a percent of the cross-sectional area of the hemisphere) was less in the hypertensive group (33 +/- 3% vs 21 +/- 2%, P less than 0.05). The data indicate that phenylephrine-induced hypertension instituted 2 h after MCAO does not aggravate edema in the ischemic core, that it improves edema in the periphery of the ischemic territory, and that it reduces the area of histochemical neuronal dysfunction.

17391797	The phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase gene V175M single nucleotide polymorphism confers the susceptibility to NASH in Japanese population. BACKGROUND/AIMS: The genetic predisposition on the development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been poorly understood. A functional polymorphism Val175Met was reported in phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) that catalyzes the conversion of phosphatidylethanolamine to phosphatidylcholine. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the carriers of Val175Met variant impaired in PEMT activity are more susceptible to NASH. METHODS: Blood samples of 107 patients with biopsy-proven NASH and of 150 healthy volunteers were analyzed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism. RESULTS: Val175Met variant allele of the PEMT gene was significantly more frequent in NASH patients than in healthy volunteers (p<0.001), and carriers of Val175Met variant were significantly more frequent in NASH patients than in healthy volunteers (p<0.01). Among NASH patients, body mass index was significantly lower (p<0.05), and non-obese patients were significantly more frequent (p<0.001) in carriers of Val175Met variant than in homozygotes of wild type PEMT. CONCLUSIONS: Val175Met variant of PEMT could be a candidate molecule that determines the susceptibility to NASH, because it is more frequently observed in NASH patients and non-obese persons with Val175Met variant of PEMT are facilitated to develop NASH.

17495183	Tenomodulin is associated with obesity and diabetes risk: the Finnish diabetes prevention study. We recently showed that long-term weight reduction changes the gene expression profile of adipose tissue in overweight individuals with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT). One of the responding genes was X-chromosomal tenomodulin (TNMD), a putative angiogenesis inhibitor. Our aim was to study the associations of individual single nucleotide polymorphisms and haplotypes with adiposity, glucose metabolism, and the risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Seven single nucleotide polymorphisms from two different haploblocks were genotyped from 507 participants of the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study (DPS). Sex-specific genotype effects were observed. Three markers of haploblock 1 were associated with features of adiposity in women (rs5966709, rs4828037) and men (rs11798018). Markers rs2073163 and rs1155794 from haploblock 2 were associated with 2-hour plasma glucose levels in men during the 3-year follow-up. The same two markers together with rs2073162 associated with the conversion of IGT to T2D in men. The risk of developing T2D was approximately 2-fold in individuals with genotypes associated with higher 2-hour plasma glucose levels; the hazard ratios were 2.192 (p = 0.025) for rs2073162-A, 2.191 (p = 0.027) for rs2073163-C, and 1.998 (p = 0.054) for rs1155974-T. These results suggest that TNMD polymorphisms are associated with adiposity and also with glucose metabolism and conversion from IGT to T2D in men.

17595233	Mutations in pattern recognition receptor genes modulate seroreactivity to microbial antigens in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: A number of antibodies against microbial epitopes or self-antigens have been associated with Crohn's disease. The development of antibodies reflects a loss of tolerance to intestinal bacteria that underlies Crohn's disease, resulting in an exaggerated adaptive immune response to these bacteria. It was hypothesised that the development of antimicrobial antibodies is influenced by the presence of genetic variants in pattern recognition receptor genes. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the influence of mutations in these innate immune receptor genes (nucleotide oligomerisation domain (NOD) 2/caspase recruitment domain (CARD) 15, NOD1/CARD4, TUCAN/CARDINAL/CARD8, Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, TLR2, TLR1 and TLR6) on the development of antimicrobial and antiglycan antibodies in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Materials and METHODS: A cohort of 1163 unrelated patients with IBD (874 Crohn's disease, 259 ulcerative colitis, 30 indeterminate colitis) and 312 controls were analysed for anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies (gASCA) IgG, anti-laminaribioside antibodies (ALCA) IgG, anti-chitobioside antibodies (ACCA) IgA, anti-mannobioside antibodies (AMCA) IgG and outer membrane porin (Omp) IgA and were genotyped for variants in NOD2/CARD15, TUCAN/CARDINAL/CARD8, NOD1/CARD4, TLR4, TLR1, TLR2 and TLR6. RESULTS: When compared with Crohn's disease patients without CARD15 mutations, the presence of at least one CARD15 variant in Crohn's disease patients more frequently led to gASCA positivity (66.1% versus 51.5%, p < 0.0001) and ALCA positivity (43.3% versus 34.9%, p = 0.018) and higher gASCA titers (85.7 versus 51.8 ELISA units, p < 0.0001), independent of ileal involvement. A gene dosage effect, with increasing gASCA and ALCA positivity for patients carrying none, one and two CARD15 variants, respectively, was seen for both markers. Similarly, Crohn's disease patients carrying NOD1/CARD4 indel had a higher prevalence of gASCA antibodies than wild-type patients (63.8% versus 55.2%, p = 0.014), also with a gene dosage effect. An opposite effect was observed for the TLR4 D299G and TLR2 P631H variants, with a lower prevalence of ACCA antibodies (23.4% versus 35%, p = 0.013) and Omp antibodies (20.5% versus 34.6%, p = 0.009), respectively. CONCLUSION: Variants in innate immune receptor genes were found to influence antibody formation against microbial epitopes. In this respect, it is intriguing that an opposite effect of CARD15 and TLR4 variants was observed. These findings may contribute to an understanding of the aetiology of the seroreactivity observed in IBD.

17683901	An improved tetra-primer PCR approach for the detection of the FGFR3 G380R mutation responsible for achondroplasia. Achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism and has an incidence of approximately 1/7500. In more than 98% of cases, the disease is associated with a G to A or G to C substitution at nucleotide position 1138 (p.G380R) of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene. We have developed a sensitive single tube tetra-primer PCR assay to detect both the c.1138G>A and c.1138G>C mutations and can successfully distinguish DNA samples that are homozygous and heterozygous for the c.1138G>A mutation. Titration studies showed that the assay could reliably detect one copy of the mutant allele in a mix of 100 wild-type alleles. The assay has been tested in 50 healthy controls, 3 known patients with achondroplasia, and 5 amniotic fluids suspected of having achondroplasia and for whom we had previously determined the genotypes for the c.1138G>A mutation by PCR-RFLP. We have observed complete concordance between methods. Our tetra-primer PCR assay is sensitive, low-cost, and easy to use method for FGFR3 p.G380R genotyping, which could be used even in "low-tech" laboratories.

18166824	Genetic investigation of four meiotic genes in women with premature ovarian failure. OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to determine whether mutations of meiotic genes, such as disrupted meiotic cDNA (DMC1), MutS homolog (MSH4), MSH5, and S. cerevisiae homolog (SPO11), were associated with premature ovarian failure (POF). DESIGN: Case-control study. METHODS: Blood sampling, karyotype, hormonal dosage, ultrasound, and ovarian biopsy were carried out on most patients. However, the main outcome measure was the sequencing of genomic DNA from peripheral blood samples of 41 women with POF and 36 fertile women (controls). RESULTS: A single heterozygous missense mutation, substitution of a cytosine residue with thymidine in exon 2 of MSH5, was found in two Caucasian women in whom POF developed at 18 and 36 years of age. This mutation resulted in replacement of a non-polar amino acid (proline) with a polar amino acid (serine) at position 29 (P29S). Neither 36 control women nor 39 other patients with POF possessed this genetic perturbation. Another POF patient of African origin showed a homozygous nucleotide change in the tenth of DMC1 gene that led to an alteration of the amino acid composition of the protein (M200V). CONCLUSIONS: The symptoms of infertility observed in the DMC1 homozygote mutation carrier and in both patients with a heterozygous substitution in exon 2 of the MSH5 gene provide indirect evidence of the role of genes involved in meiotic recombination in the regulation of ovarian function. MSH5 and DMC1 mutations may be one explanation for POF, albeit uncommon.

18408250	A single nucleotide polymorphism in the IRF5 promoter region is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis in the Japanese population. OBJECTIVES: Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a member of the IRF family of transcription factors, which regulate the production of proinflammatory cytokines. Polymorphisms in the IRF5 gene have been associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythaematosus (SLE) in Caucasian and Asian populations, but their involvement in other autoimmune diseases is still uncertain. Here, we assessed the genetic role of IRF5 in susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Japanese subjects. METHODS: We selected 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and a CGGGG insertion-deletion polymorphism in the IRF5 gene. We performed 2 sets of case-control comparisons using Japanese subjects (first set: 830 patients with RA and 658 controls; second set: 1112 patients with RA and 940 controls), and then performed a stratified analysis using human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DRB1 shared epitope (SE) status. We genotyped the SNPs using TaqMan assays. RESULTS: A significant association of the rs729302 A allele with RA susceptibility was found in both sets (odds ratio (OR) 1.22, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.35, p<0.001 in the combined analysis). When the patients were stratified by the SE, the rs729302 A allele was found to confer increased risk to RA in patients that were SE negative (OR 1.50, 95% CI 1.17 to 1.92, p = 0.001) as compared with patients carrying the SE (OR 1.11, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.33, p = 0.24). In both sets, no genotyped polymorphisms were significantly associated with RA susceptibility, but rs729302 was significantly associated. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that the promoter polymorphism of IRF5 is a genetic factor conferring predisposition to RA, and that it contributes considerably to disease pathogenesis in patients that were SE negative.

18439317	Association between promoter -1607 polymorphism of MMP1 and lumbar disc disease in Southern Chinese. BACKGROUND: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are involved in the degradation of the extracellular matrix of the intervertebral disc. A SNP for guanine insertion/deletion (G/D), the -1607 promoter polymorphism, of the MMP1 gene was found significantly affecting promoter activity and corresponding transcription level. Hence it is a good candidate for genetic studies in DDD. METHODS: Southern Chinese volunteers between 18 and 55 years were recruited from the population. DDD in the lumbar spine was defined by MRI using Schneiderman's classification. Genomic DNA was isolated from the leukocytes and genotyping was performed using the Sequenom platform. Association and Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium checking were assessed by Chi-square test and Mann-Whitney U test. RESULTS: Our results showed substantial evidence of association between -1607 promoter polymorphism of MMP1 and DDD in the Southern Chinese subjects. D allelic was significantly associated with DDD (p value = 0.027, odds ratio = 1.41 with 95% CI = 1.04-1.90) while Genotypic association on the presence of D allele was also significantly associated with DDD (p value = 0.046, odds ratio = 1.50 with 95% CI = 1.01-2.24). Further age stratification showed significant genotypic as well as allelic association in the group of over 40 years (genotypic: p value = 0.035, odds ratio = 1.617 with 95% CI = 1.033-2.529; allelic: p value = 0.033, odds ratio = 1.445 with 95% CI = 1.029-2.029). Disc bulge, annular tears and the Schmorl's nodes were not associated with the D allele. CONCLUSION: We demonstrated that individuals with the presence of D allele for the -1607 promoter polymorphism of MMP1 are about 1.5 times more susceptible to develop DDD when compared with those having G allele only. Further association was identified in individuals over 40 years of age. Disc bulge, annular tear as well as Schmorl's nodes were not associated with this polymorphism.

18657397	Detailed spectral profile analysis of penicillin-induced epileptiform activity in anesthetized rats. Penicillin model is a widely used experimental model for epilepsy research. In the present study we aimed to portray a detailed spectral analysis of penicillin-induced epileptiform activity in comparison with basal brain activity in anesthetized Wistar rats. Male Wistar rats were anesthetized with i.p. urethane and connected to an electrocorticogram setup. After a short period of basal activity recording, epileptic focus was induced by injecting 400IU/2 microl penicillin-G potassium into the left lateral ventricle while the cortical activity was continuously recorded. Basal activity, latent period and the penicillin-induced epileptiform activity periods were then analyzed using both conventional methods and spectral analysis. Spectral analyses were conducted by dividing the whole spectrum into different frequency bands including delta, theta (slow and fast), alpha-sigma, beta (1 and 2) and gamma (1 and 2) bands. Our results show that the most affected frequency bands were delta, theta, beta-2 and gamma-2 bands during the epileptiform activity and there were marked differences in terms of spectral densities between three investigated episodes (basal activity, latent period and epileptiform activity). Our results may help to analyze novel data obtained using similar experimental models and the simple analysis method described here can be used in similar studies to investigate the basic neuronal mechanism of this or other types of experimental epilepsies.

18681856	Expanding clinical spectrum of non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism due to an activating germline mutation, p.M453T, in the thyrotropin receptor gene. OBJECTIVE: To describe clinical and genetic features of a Thai family with non-autoimmune hyperthyroidism (NAH) caused by an activating germline mutation in the thyrotropin receptor (TSHR) gene. PATIENTS: Three affected individuals from the same family (a father and his two children) were studied. Clinical and imaging findings were reviewed and compared. GENETIC ANALYSIS: Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes and mutation analysis of the entire coding sequence of the TSHR gene was performed in both children and their parents by direct DNA sequencing. RESULTS: A heterozygous germline T to C transition in exon 10 of the TSHR gene (c.1358T-->C) resulting in the substitution of methionine (ATG) by threonine (ACG) at codon 453 (p.M453T) was identified in the father and his two children. They presented with different clinical severity and variable age of onset. In addition to hyperthyroidism, ventriculomegaly and bilateral shortening of the fifth metacarpal bones and the middle phalanges of the fifth fingers were consistently found in all affected individuals. CONCLUSIONS: Ventriculomegaly and bilateral shortening of the fifth metacarpal bones and the middle phalanges of the fifth fingers might be characteristic features of NAH because of an activating TSHR germline mutation. In addition, the shortening of the middle phalanges of the fifth fingers has never been previously described, expanding the phenotypic spectrum of the disease.

19067809	Hemodynamic parameters and heart rate variability during a tilt test in relation to gene polymorphism of renin-angiotensin and serotonin system. PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to evaluate the renin-angiotensin system and serotonin transporter gene polymorphisms in relation to hemodynamic parameters and heart rate variability during a head-up tilt test (HUT) in patients with vasovagal syncope. METHODS: DNA was collected from 191 patients (mean age 44+/-18 years, 61 men, 130 women). The following gene polymorphisms were determined in genomic DNA: angiotensin-converting enzyme insertion/deletion polymorphism (I/D ACE), angiotensinogen gene polymorphism (M 235), angiotensin II receptor type 1 (ATR1) polymorphism (A 11666C), and polymorphism of serotonin transporter gene (5HTTLPR).Heart rate variability during HUT was assessed in 5-minute intervals by low frequency, high frequency, standard deviation of the normal-to-normal (SDNN), and root mean square successive difference parameters. RESULTS: AA genotype of A 1166C polymorphism was associated with lower minimal systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) during HUT compared with other genotypes (minimal SBP: AA 59.6+/-21,8, AC 79.9+/-22.7, CC 65.4+/-22.7 mmHg, P=0.007), (minimal DBP: AA 36.4+/-22.7, AC 52.3+/-22.9, CC 45.4+/-19.5 mmHg, P=0.007).AA genotype was also associated with higher SDNN compared to other genotypes in the early phase of HUT (SDNN in 5 minutes of tilt: AA 59.7+/-24.6, AC 50.6+/-20.6, CC 46.0+/-13.2, P=0.01) and at syncope occurrence (SDNN: AA 71.0+/-20.9, AC 58.2+/-17.9, CC 58+/-10, P=0.04) CONCLUSION: AA genotype of A 1166C polymorphism in the ATR1 gene may be associated with hypotension and decline in sympathetic tone during HUT. Its role in genetic predisposition to vasovagal syncope cannot be excluded.

19508969	Hypomorphic mutations in meckelin (MKS3/TMEM67) cause nephronophthisis with liver fibrosis (NPHP11). BACKGROUND: Nephronophthisis (NPHP), a rare recessive cystic kidney disease, is the most frequent genetic cause of chronic renal failure in children and young adults. Mutations in nine genes (NPHP1-9) have been identified. NPHP can be associated with retinal degeneration (Senior-Loken syndrome), brainstem and cerebellar anomalies (Joubert syndrome), or liver fibrosis. METHODS: To identify a causative gene for the subset of patients with associated liver fibrosis, the authors performed a genome wide linkage search in a consanguineous family with three affected patients using 50K SNP microarrays and homozygosity mapping. RESULTS: The authors obtained a significant maximum parametric LOD (logarithm of odds) score of Z(max) = 3.72 on chromosome 8q22 and identified a homozygous missense mutation in the gene MKS3/TMEM67. When examining a worldwide cohort of 62 independent patients with NPHP and associated liver fibrosis we identified altogether four novel mutations (p.W290L, p.C615R, p.G821S, and p.G821R) in five of them. Mutations of MKS3/TMEM67, found recently in Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS) type 3 and Joubert syndrome (JBTS) type 6, are predominantly truncating mutations. In contrast, the mutations detected here in patients with NPHP and associated liver fibrosis are exclusively missense mutations. This suggests that they may represent hypomorphic alleles, leading to a milder phenotype compared with the more severe MKS or JBTS phenotype. Additionally, mutation analysis for MKS3/TMEM67 in 120 patients with JBTS yielded seven different (four novel) mutations in five patients, four of whom also presented with congenital liver fibrosis. CONCLUSIONS: Hypomorphic MKS3/TMEM67 mutations cause NPHP with liver fibrosis (NPHP11). This is the first report of MKS3 mutations in patients with no vermian agenesis and without neurological signs. Thus NPHP, JBTS, and MKS represent allelic disorders.

19521089	Serotonin transporter gene polymorphic element 5-HTTLPR increases the risk of sporadic Parkinson's disease in Italy. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder causing muscular rigidity, resting tremor and bradykinesia. We conducted an association study assessing how PD risk in Italy was influenced by the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) polymorphic region 5-HTTLPR, consisting of an insertion/deletion (long allele-L/short allele-S) of 43 bp in the SLC6A4 promoter region. The SLC6A4 promoter single nucleotide polymorphism rs25531(A-->G) was evaluated too. We collected 837 independent subjects (393 PD, 444 controls). An association between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and risk of PD (S/S genotype OR [95% CI]: 1.7[1.2-2.5], p = 0.002) was found. The rs25531 and the haplotype 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 did not associate with risk of PD. Our data indicate that the 5-HTTLPR polymorphic element within the SLC6A4 promoter may govern the genetic risk of PD in Italians.

19728177	Prolonged hypothermia as a bridge to recovery for cerebral edema and intracranial hypertension associated with fulminant hepatic failure. BACKGROUND: To review evidence-based treatment options in patients with cerebral edema complicating fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) and discuss the potential applications of hypothermia. METHOD: Case-based observations from a medical intensive care unit (MICU) in a tertiary care facility in a 27-year-old female with FHF from acetaminophen and resultant cerebral edema. RESULTS: Our patient was admitted to the MICU after being found unresponsive with presumed toxicity from acetaminophen which was ingested over a 2-day period. The patient had depressed of mental status lasting at least 24 h prior to admission. Initial evaluation confirmed FHF from acetaminophen and cerebral edema. The patient was treated with hyperosmolar therapy, hyperventilation, sedation, and chemical paralysis. Her intracranial pressure remained elevated despite maximal medical therapy. We then initiated therapeutic hypothermia which was continued for 5 days. At re-warming, patient had resolution of her cerebral edema and intracranial hypertension. At discharge, she had complete recovery of neurological and hepatic functions. CONCLUSION: In patients with FHF and cerebral edema from acetaminophen overdose, prolonged therapeutic hypothermia could potentially be used as a life saving therapy and a bridge to hepatic and neurological recovery. A clinical trial of hypothermia in patients with this condition is warranted.

19881468	hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism and risk of lung cancer by histological type. Human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1) has a major role in the repair of 8-hydroxyguanine, a major promutagenic DNA lesion. The genetic polymorphism rs1052133, which leads to substitution of the amino acid at codon 326 from Ser to Cys, shows functional differences, namely a decrease in enzyme activity in hOGG1-Cys326. Although several studies have investigated the association between rs1052133 and lung cancer susceptibility, the effect of this locus on lung cancer according to histology remains unclear. We therefore conducted a case-control study with 515 incident lung cancer cases and 1030 age- and sex-matched controls without cancer, and further conducted a meta-analysis. In overall analysis, the homozygous Cys/Cys genotype showed a significant association with lung cancer compared to Ser allele carrier status (odds ratio (OR)=1.31, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.02-1.69). By histology-based analysis, the Cys/Cys genotype showed a significantly positive association with small-cell carcinoma (OR=2.40, 95% CI=1.32-4.49) and marginally significant association with adenocarcinoma (OR=1.32, 95% CI=0.98-1.77). A meta-analysis of previous and our present study revealed that this polymorphism is positively associated with adenocarcinoma, although suggestive associations were also found for squamous- and small-cell lung cancers. These results indicate that rs1052133 contributes to the risk of adenocarcinoma of lung.

20005218	A potential regulatory single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter of the Klotho gene may be associated with essential hypertension in the Chinese Han population. BACKGROUND: Mice with defects in the Klotho gene exhibit multiple aging phenotypes including arteriosclerosis. We hypothesised that the G-395A polymorphism in the promoter region of the human Klotho gene may contribute to the prevalence of Essential Hypertension (EH). METHODS: We investigate whether the G-395A polymorphism of Klotho is associated with EH in a population consisting of 215 patients with EH and 220 non-hypertensive subjects. We also tested whether a G/A substitution at the G-395A site affected the transcription level in vitro through the dual-luciferase reporter assay. RESULTS: Differences in the genotype distributions of the G-395A polymorphism between the EH and non-hypertension groups are statistically significant (P=0.032). There are differential effects of age, gender and smoking status on the association of the G-395A polymorphism with EH; the G-395A polymorphism is significantly associated with EH in subjects over 60years old, in females and in nonsmokers. A multiple logistic regression analysis indicated that the odds ratio for EH in the -395A allele carriers as compared with the control group was 0.593 (P=0.024) after adjusting for current traditional risk factors. The dual-luciferase reporter assay revealed that the -395A carrier of a 498-bp DNA fragment (containing the G-395A site) upstream of the Klotho gene has higher relative luciferase activity than the -395G carrier. CONCLUSIONS: The G-395A polymorphism of the human Klotho gene is associated with EH and may be a potential regulatory site.

20034406	Chemokine CCL2 and its receptor CCR2 are increased in the hippocampus following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. BACKGROUND: Neuroinflammation occurs after seizures and is implicated in epileptogenesis. CCR2 is a chemokine receptor for CCL2 and their interaction mediates monocyte infiltration in the neuroinflammatory cascade triggered in different brain pathologies. In this work CCR2 and CCL2 expression were examined following status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine injection. METHODS: SE was induced by pilocarpine injection. Control rats were injected with saline instead of pilocarpine. Five days after SE, CCR2 staining in neurons and glial cells was examined using imunohistochemical analyses. The number of CCR2 positive cells was determined using stereology probes in the hippocampus. CCL2 expression in the hippocampus was examined by molecular assay. RESULTS: Increased CCR2 was observed in the hippocampus after SE. Seizures also resulted in alterations to the cell types expressing CCR2. Increased numbers of neurons that expressed CCR2 was observed following SE. Microglial cells were more closely apposed to the CCR2-labeled cells in SE rats. In addition, rats that experienced SE exhibited CCR2-labeling in populations of hypertrophied astrocytes, especially in CA1 and dentate gyrus. These CCR2+ astroctytes were not observed in control rats. Examination of CCL2 expression showed that it was elevated in the hippocampus following SE. CONCLUSION: The data show that CCR2 and CCL2 are up-regulated in the hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced SE. Seizures also result in changes to CCR2 receptor expression in neurons and astrocytes. These changes might be involved in detrimental neuroplasticity and neuroinflammatory changes that occur following seizures.

20105310	Association of adipocyte genes with ASP expression: a microarray analysis of subcutaneous and omental adipose tissue in morbidly obese subjects. BACKGROUND: Prevalence of obesity is increasing to pandemic proportions. However, obese subjects differ in insulin resistance, adipokine production and co-morbidities. Based on fasting plasma analysis, obese subjects were grouped as Low Acylation Stimulating protein (ASP) and Triglyceride (TG) (LAT) vs High ASP and TG (HAT). Subcutaneous (SC) and omental (OM) adipose tissues (n = 21) were analysed by microarray, and biologic pathways in lipid metabolism and inflammation were specifically examined. METHODS: LAT and HAT groups were matched in age, obesity, insulin, and glucose, and had similar expression of insulin-related genes (InsR, IRS-1). ASP related genes tended to be increased in the HAT group and were correlated (factor B, adipsin, complement C3, p < 0.01 each). Differences between LAT and HAT group were almost exclusively in SC tissue, with little difference in OM tissue. Increased C5L2 (p < 0.01), an ASP receptor, in HAT suggests a compensatory ASP pathway, associated with increased TG storage. RESULTS: HAT adipose tissue demonstrated increased lipid related genes for storage (CD36, DGAT1, DGAT2, SCD1, FASN, and LPL), lipolysis (HSL, CES1, perilipin), fatty acid binding proteins (FABP1, FABP3) and adipocyte differentiation markers (CEBPalpha, CEBPbeta, PPARgamma). By contrast, oxidation related genes were decreased (AMPK, UCP1, CPT1, FABP7). HAT subjects had increased anti-inflammatory genes TGFB1, TIMP1, TIMP3, and TIMP4 while proinflammatory PIG7 and MMP2 were also significantly increased; all genes, p < 0.025. CONCLUSION: Taken together, the profile of C5L2 receptor, ASP gene expression and metabolic factors in adipose tissue from morbidly obese HAT subjects suggests a compensatory response associated with the increased plasma ASP and TG.

20606392	Atypical GH insensitivity syndrome and severe insulin-like growth factor-I deficiency resulting from compound heterozygous mutations of the GH receptor, including a novel frameshift mutation affecting the intracellular domain. BACKGROUND/AIMS: GH insensitivity and IGF deficiency may result from aberrations of the GH receptor (GHR). We describe a 4-year-old child with modest growth failure and normal serum concentrations of GH-binding protein (GHBP), but clinical evidence of GH insensitivity. METHOD: Serum and DNA samples from the proband and his parents were analyzed. RESULTS: The child had a height of -4 SD, elevated serum GH concentrations, abnormally low serum IGF-I and IGFBP-3 concentrations and normal GHBP concentrations. DNA analysis revealed compound heterozygosity for mutations of GHR, including a previously reported R211H mutation and a novel duplication of a nucleotide in exon 9 (899dupC), the latter resulting in a frameshift and a premature stop codon. Treatment with recombinant DNA-derived IGF-I resulted in growth acceleration. CONCLUSION: Mutations affecting the intracellular domain of the GHR can result in GH insensitivity and IGF deficiency, despite normal serum concentrations of GHBP. The presence of clinical and biochemical evidence of GH resistance is sufficient to consider the possibility of aberrations of the GHR, even in the presence of normal serum GHBP concentrations.

20708777	Association of DNA polymorphisms within the CYP11B2/CYP11B1 locus and postoperative hypertension risk in the patients with aldosterone-producing adenomas. OBJECTIVES: Hypertension often persists after adrenalectomy for primary aldosteronism. Traditional factors associated with postoperative hypertension were evaluated, but whether genetic determinants were involved remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of DNA polymorphisms within steroid synthesis genes (CYP11B2, CYP11B1) and the postoperative resolution of hypertension in Chinese patients undergoing adrenalectomy for aldosterone-producing adenomas (APA). METHODS: Ninety-three patients with APA were assessed for postoperative resolution of hypertension. All patients were genotyped for rs1799998 (C-344 T), intron 2 conversion, rs4539 (A2718G) within CYP11B2 and rs6410 (G22 5A), rs6387 (A2803G) within CYP11B1. The associations between CYPB11B2/CYP11B1 polymorphisms and persistent postoperative hypertension were assessed by multivariate analysis. RESULTS: CYP11B2-CYP11B1 haplotype was associated with persistent postoperative hypertension in Chinese patients undergoing adrenalectomy with APA (P = .006). Specifically, the rs4539 (AA) polymorphism was associated with persistent postoperative hypertension (P = .002). Multivariate logistic regression revealed the common haplotypes H1 (AGACT), H2 (AGAWT), and H3 (AGAWC) were associated with the persistent postoperative hypertension (P = .01, 0.03, 0.005 after Bonferroni correction). Additional predictors of persistent postoperative hypertension included duration of hypertension (P <.0005), family history of hypertension (P = .001), and elevated systolic blood pressure (P = .015). CONCLUSIONS: The rs4539 (AA), H1, H2, and H3 are genetic predictors for postoperative persistence of hypertension for Chinese patients treated by adrenalectomy with APA. DNA polymorphisms at CYP11B2/B1 locus may confer susceptibility to postoperative hypertension of patients with APA.

20806042	A novel mutation in GJA8 causing congenital cataract-microcornea syndrome in a Chinese pedigree. PURPOSE: To identify the underlying genetic defect in a four-generation family of Chinese origin with autosomal dominant congenital cataract-microcornea syndrome (CCMC). METHODS: All individuals in the study underwent a full clinical examination and the details of history were collected . Genomic DNA extracted from peripheral blood was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method and the exons of all candidate genes were sequenced. RESULTS: Direct sequencing of the encoding regions of the candidate genes revealed a heterozygous mutation c.592C-->T in exon 2 of the gap junction protein, alpha 8 (GJA8) gene. This mutation was responsible for the familial disorder through the substitution of a highly conserved arginine to tryptophan at codon 198 (p.R198W). This change co-segregated with all affected members of the family, but was not detected either in the non-carrier relatives or in the 100 normal controls. CONCLUSIONS: This report is the first to relate p.R198W mutation in GJA8 with CCMC. The result expands the mutation spectrum of GJA8 in associated with congenital cataract and microcornea, and implies that this gene has direct involvement with the development of the lens as well as the other anterior segment of the eye.

21163864	The M235T polymorphism of the angiotensinogen gene in South Indian patients of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. INTRODUCTION: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a complex disorder and genetically transmitted cardiac disease with a diverse clinical course. The objective of the present study was to examine the association of the T704C polymorphism of exon 2 of the angiotensinogen (AGT) gene with HCM in a South Indian population from Andhra Pradesh. Subjects and methods. One-hundred and fifty HCM (90 sporadic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy [SHCM] and 60 familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy [FHCM]) patients and 165 age- and sex-matched normal healthy controls without known hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy were included in the study. DNA was isolated from peripheral leukocytes and the region of interest in the AGT gene bearing a missense mutation methionine to threonine substitution at codon 235 (M235T) of exon 2, was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR products were subjected to restriction digestion with the enzyme SfaNI. RESULTS: Significant differences were detected in genotypic distribution (p = 0.04) as well as the allelic frequency (p = 0.003) between the SHCM patients and controls. The polymorphism did not show any association with FHCM. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the T allele of the AGT gene is significantly associated with SHCM in a South Indian population from Andhra Pradesh. However, we did not find significant association of this polymorphism with FHCM.

21615796	Interleukin-17F gene polymorphism in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia. INTRODUCTION: IL-17F is a novel inflammatory cytokine and plays an important role in some autoimmune diseases. We investigated the association between chronic ITP and the frequency of the single-nucleotide polymorphism rs763780 (7488T/C), which causes a His-to-Arg substitution at amino acid 161. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined 102 patients (men/women, 40/62; median age, 42) diagnosed with chronic ITP and 188 healthy controls (men/women, 78/110; median age, 38). Genotyping was determined by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, patients with chronic ITP had a significantly lower frequency of the IL-17F 7488CC genotype (0% vs. 4.8%, P<0.05). The number of IL-17F 7488C alleles among the patients with chronic ITP was also significantly lower than in the control group (8.7% vs. 15.2% OR=0.48, 95%CI=0.27-0.84, P=0.016). Furthermore, patients with the IL-17F 7488TT genotype showed a severe thrombocytopenic state (platelet count<10 10(9) /L) at diagnosis than those with the IL-17F 7488TC genotype (20.9% vs. 0%, P=0.04). CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the IL-17F 7488 T allele is significantly associated with the development of chronic ITP, suggesting a role for IL-17F in the pathogenesis of chronic ITP.

21682595	XRCC1 Arg399Gln gene polymorphism and the risk of systemic lupus erythematosus in the Polish population. It has been shown that DNA repair is reduced in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and that the X-ray repair cross-complementing (XRCC1) Arg399Gln (rs25487) polymorphism may contribute to DNA repair. We evaluated the frequency of the XRCC1 Arg399Gln substitution in patients with SLE (n=265) and controls (n=360) in a sample of the Polish population. The odds ratio (OR) for SLE patients with the Gln/Gln versus Gln/Arg or Arg/Arg genotypes was 1.553 (95% confidence interval [CI]=0.9573-2.520; p=0.0729). OR for the Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg versus Arg/Arg genotype was 1.551 (95% CI=1.122-2.144, p=0.0077). The OR for the 399 Gln allele in patients with SLE was 1.406 (95% CI=1.111-1.779, p=0.0045). There was also a statistically significant p-value of the (2) test for the trend observed in the XRCC1 Arg399Gln polymorphism (ptrend=0.0048). We also found a significant contribution of the Gln/Gln or Arg/Gln versus Arg/Arg genotype to the presence of either the malar rash or photosensitivity manifestations of SLE OR=2.241 (1.328-3.781, p=0.0023, pcorr=0.0414). Moreover, the meta-analysis of Taiwanese Han Chinese, Brazilian, and Polish populations showed that the Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg genotype and Gln allele were associated with SLE incidence. OR for the Gln/Gln or Gln/Arg versus Arg/Arg genotype was 1.440 (95% CI=1.15-1.80, p=0.0019) and OR for the Gln allele was 1.27 (95% CI=1.08-1.51, p=0.0051). Our studies may confirm that the XRCC1 Arg399Gln polymorphism may increase the risk of incidence of SLE and the occurrence of some SLE manifestations.

22808010	Defining an EPOR- regulated transcriptome for primary progenitors, including Tnfr-sf13c as a novel mediator of EPO- dependent erythroblast formation. Certain concepts concerning EPO/EPOR action modes have been challenged by in vivo studies: Bcl-x levels are elevated in maturing erythroblasts, but not in their progenitors; truncated EPOR alleles that lack a major p85/PI3K recruitment site nonetheless promote polycythemia; and Erk1 disruption unexpectedly bolsters erythropoiesis. To discover novel EPO/EPOR action routes, global transcriptome analyses presently are applied to interrogate EPO/EPOR effects on primary bone marrow-derived CFUe-like progenitors. Overall, 160 EPO/EPOR target transcripts were significantly modulated 2-to 21.8-fold. A unique set of EPO-regulated survival factors included Lyl1, Gas5, Pim3, Pim1, Bim, Trib3 and Serpina 3g. EPO/EPOR-modulated cell cycle mediators included Cdc25a, Btg3, Cyclin-d2, p27-kip1, Cyclin-g2 and CyclinB1-IP-1. EPO regulation of signal transduction factors was also interestingly complex. For example, not only Socs3 plus Socs2 but also Spred2, Spred1 and Eaf1 were EPO-induced as negative-feedback components. Socs2, plus five additional targets, further proved to comprise new EPOR/Jak2/Stat5 response genes (which are important for erythropoiesis during anemia). Among receptors, an atypical TNF-receptor Tnfr-sf13c was up-modulated    >5-fold by EPO. Functionally, Tnfr-sf13c ligation proved to both promote proerythroblast survival, and substantially enhance erythroblast formation. The EPOR therefore engages a sophisticated set of transcriptome response circuits, with Tnfr-sf13c deployed as one novel positive regulator of proerythroblast formation.

24126708	Association of common genetic variants of HOMER1 gene with levodopa adverse effects in Parkinson's disease patients. Levodopa is the most effective symptomatic therapy for Parkinson's disease, but its chronic use could lead to chronic adverse outcomes, such as motor fluctuations, dyskinesia and visual hallucinations. HOMER1 is a protein with pivotal function in glutamate transmission, which has been related to the pathogenesis of these complications. This study investigates whether polymorphisms in the HOMER1 gene promoter region are associated with the occurrence of the chronic complications of levodopa therapy. A total of 205 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease were investigated. Patients were genotyped for rs4704559, rs10942891 and rs4704560 by allelic discrimination with Taqman assays. The rs4704559 G allele was associated with a lower prevalence of dyskinesia (prevalence ratio (PR)=0.615, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.426-0.887, P=0.009) and visual hallucinations (PR=0.515, 95% CI 0.295-0.899, P=0.020). Our data suggest that HOMER1 rs4704559 G allele has a protective role for the development of levodopa adverse effects.

2422478	Midline B3 serotonin nerves in rat medulla are involved in hypotensive effect of methyldopa. Previous experiments in this laboratory have shown that microinjection of methyldopa onto the ventrolateral cells of the B3 serotonin neurons in the medulla elicits a hypotensive response mediated by a projection descending into the spinal cord. The present experiments were designed to investigate the role of the midline cells of the B3 serotonin neurons in the medulla, coinciding with the raphe magnus. In spontaneously hypertensive, stroke-prone rats, microinjection of methyldopa into the area of the midline B3 serotonin cell group in the ventral medulla caused a potent hypotension of 30-40 mm Hg, which was maximal 2-3 h after administration and was abolished by the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) injected intracerebroventricularly. However, intraspinal injection of 5,7-DHT to produce a more selective lesion of only descending serotonin projections in the spinal cord did not affect this hypotension. Further, 5,7-DHT lesion of serotonin nerves travelling in the median forebrain bundle, one of the main ascending pathways from the B3 serotonin cells, did not affect the fall in blood pressure associated with a midline B3 serotonin methyldopa injection. It is concluded therefore that, unlike the ventrolateral B3 cells which mediate a methyldopa-induced hypotension via descending projections, the midline serotonin B3 cells in the medulla contribute to the hypotensive action of methyldopa, either by way of an ascending projection which does not pass through the median forebrain bundle, or through a projection restricted to the caudal brainstem.

24623966	Endothelial NADPH oxidase 4 mediates vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2-induced intravitreal neovascularization in a rat model of retinopathy of prematurity. PURPOSE: NADPH oxidase-generated reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in angiogenesis. Isoforms of NADPH oxidase NOX1, NOX2, and NOX4 are reported to be expressed in endothelial cells (ECs). Of these, NOX1 and NOX2 have been reported to contribute to intravitreal neovascularization (IVNV) in oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) models. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the isoform NOX4 in ECs contributed to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced angiogenesis and IVNV. METHODS: Isoforms of NADPH oxidase MRNA were measured in several types of cultured vascular ecs: human retinal microvascular ECs (hRMVECs), choroidal ECs (CECs), and human umbilical vascular ECs (HUVECs) using real-time PCR. Newborn rat pups and dams were placed into an OIR model that cycled oxygen concentration between 50% and 10% every 24 h for 14 days, and then were placed in room air (RA) for an additional 4 days (rat OIR model). NOX4 expression in retinal lysates from the RA-raised pups at postnatal day 0 (P0), P14, and P18 was determined with western blots. STAT3 activation was determined as the ratio of phosphorylated STAT3 to total STAT3 with western blot analysis of retinal lysates from pups raised in RA or from the rat OIR model at P18. Semiquantitative assessment of the density of NOX4 colabeling with lectin-stained retinal ECs was determined by immunolabeling of retinal cryosections from P18 pups in OIR or in RA. In hRMVECs transfected with NOX4 siRNA and treated with VEGF or control, 1) ROS generation was measured using the 5-(and-6)-chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate, acetyl ester fluorescence assay and 2) phosphorylated VEGF receptor 2 and STAT3, and total VEGFR2 and STAT3 were measured in western blot analyses. VEGF-stimulated hRMVEC proliferation was measured following transfection with NOX4 siRNA or STAT3 siRNA, or respective controls. RESULTS: NOX4 was the most prevalent isoform of NADPH oxidase in vascular ECs. NOX4 expression in retinal lysates was significantly decreased during development in RA. Compared to RA, the expression of retinal NOX4 increased at P18. At p18 OIR, semiquantitative assessment of the density of lectin and NOX4 colabeling in retinal vascular ECs was greater in retinal cryosections and activated STAT3 was greater in retinal lysates when compared to the RA-raised pups. In cultured hRMVECs, knockdown of NOX4 by siRNA transfection inhibited VEGF-induced ROS generation. VEGF induced a physical interaction of phosphorylated-VEGFR2 and NOX4. Knockdown of NOX4: 1) reduced VEGFR2 activation but did not abolish it and 2) abolished STAT3 activation in response to VEGF. Knockdown of either NOX4 or STAT3 inhibited VEGF-induced EC proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that in a model representative of human retinopathy of prematurity, NOX4 was increased at a time point when IVNV developed. VEGF-activated NOX4 led to an interaction between VEGF-activated VEGFR2 and NOX4 that mediated EC proliferation via activation of STAT3. Altogether, our results suggest that NOX4 may regulate VEGFR2-mediated IVNV through activated STAT3.

24632946	Disruption of the temporally regulated cloaca endodermal b-catenin signaling causes anorectal malformations. The cloaca is temporally formed and eventually divided by the urorectal septum (URS) during urogenital and anorectal organ development. Although congenital malformations, such as anorectal malformations (ARMs), are frequently observed during this process, the underlying pathogenic mechanisms remain unclear. b-Catenin is a critical component of canonical Wnt signaling and is essential for the regulation of cell differentiation and morphogenesis during embryogenesis. The expression of b-catenin is observed in endodermal epithelia, including URS epithelia. We modulated the b-catenin gene conditionally in endodermal epithelia by utilizing tamoxifen-inducible Cre driver line (Shh(CreERT2)). Both b-catenin loss- and gain-of-function (LOF and GOF) mutants displayed abnormal clefts in the perineal region and hypoplastic elongation of the URS. The mutants also displayed reduced cell proliferation in the URS mesenchyme. In addition, the b-catenin GOF mutants displayed reduced apoptosis and subsequently increased apoptosis in the URS epithelium. This instability possibly resulted in reduced expression levels of differentiation markers, such as keratin 1 and filaggrin, in the perineal epithelia. The expression of bone morphogenetic protein (Bmp) genes, such as Bmp4 and Bmp7, was also ectopically induced in the epithelia of the URS in the b-catenin GOF mutants. The expression of the Msx2 gene and phosphorylated-Smad1/5/8, possible readouts of Bmp signaling, was also increased in the mutants. Moreover, we introduced an additional mutation for a Bmp receptor gene: BmprIA. The Shh(CreERT2/+); b-catenin(flox(ex3)/+); BmprIA(flox/-) mutants displayed partial restoration of URS elongation compared with the b-catenin GOF mutants. These results indicate that some ARM phenotypes in the b-catenin GOF mutants were caused by abnormal Bmp signaling. The current analysis revealed the close relation of endodermal b-catenin signaling to the ARM phenotypes. These results are considered to shed light on the pathogenic mechanisms of human ARMs.

24911645	Behavioral and neurochemical studies in mice pretreated with garcinielliptone FC in pilocarpine-induced seizures. Garcinielliptone FC (GFC) isolated from hexanic fraction seed extract of species Platonia insignis Mart. It is widely used in folk medicine to treat skin diseases in both humans and animals as well as the seed decoction has been used to treat diarrheas and inflammatory diseases. However, there is no research on GFC effects in the central nervous system of rodents. The present study aimed to evaluate the GFC effects at doses of 25, 50 or 75 mg/kg on seizure parameters to determine their anticonvulsant activity and its effects on amino acid (r-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamine, aspartate and glutathione) levels as well as on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in mice hippocampus after seizures. GFC produced an increased latency to first seizure, at doses 25mg/kg (20.12 + 2.20 min), 50mg/kg (20.95 + 2.21 min) or 75 mg/kg (23.43 + 1.99 min) when compared with seized mice. In addition, GABA content of mice hippocampus treated with GFC75 plus P400 showed an increase of 46.90% when compared with seized mice. In aspartate, glutamine and glutamate levels detected a decrease of 5.21%, 13.55% and 21.80%, respectively in mice hippocampus treated with GFC75 plus P400 when compared with seized mice. Hippocampus mice treated with GFC75 plus P400 showed an increase in AChE activity (63.30%) when compared with seized mice. The results indicate that GFC can exert anticonvulsant activity and reduce the frequency of installation of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, as demonstrated by increase in latency to first seizure and decrease in mortality rate of animals. In conclusion, our data suggest that GFC may influence in epileptogenesis and promote anticonvulsant actions in pilocarpine model by modulating the GABA and glutamate contents and of AChE activity in seized mice hippocampus. This compound may be useful to produce neuronal protection and it can be considered as an anticonvulsant agent.

24971338	Conversion to sirolimus ameliorates cyclosporine-induced nephropathy in the rat: focus on serum, urine, gene, and protein renal expression biomarkers. Protocols of conversion from cyclosporin A (CsA) to sirolimus (SRL) have been widely used in immunotherapy after transplantation to prevent CsA-induced nephropathy, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these protocols remain nuclear. This study aimed to identify the molecular pathways and putative biomarkers of CsA-to-SRL conversion in a rat model. Four animal groups (n = 6) were tested during 9 weeks: control, CsA, SRL, and conversion (CsA for 3 weeks followed by SRL for 6 weeks). Classical and emergent serum, urinary, and kidney tissue (gene and protein expression) markers were assessed. Renal lesions were analyzed in hematoxylin and eosin, periodic acid-Schiff, and Masson's trichrome stains. SRL-treated rats presented proteinuria and NGAL (serum and urinary) as the best markers of renal impairment. Short CsA treatment presented slight or even absent kidney lesions and TGF-b, NF- kb, mTOR, PCNA, TP53, KIM-1, and CTGF as relevant gene and protein changes. Prolonged CsA exposure aggravated renal damage, without clear changes on the traditional markers, but with changes in serums TGF- b and IL-7, TBARs clearance, and kidney TGF-b and mTOR. Conversion to SRL prevented CsA-induced renal damage evolution (absent/mild grade lesions), while NGAL (serum versus urine) seems to be a feasible biomarker of CsA replacement to SRL.

25054547	Characterization of a novel BCHE "silent" allele: point mutation (p.Val204Asp) causes loss of activity and prolonged apnea with suxamethonium. Butyrylcholinesterase deficiency is characterized by prolonged apnea after the use of muscle relaxants (suxamethonium or mivacurium) in patients who have mutations in the BCHE gene. Here, we report a case of prolonged neuromuscular block after administration of suxamethonium leading to the discovery of a novel BCHE variant (c.695T>A, p.Val204Asp). Inhibition studies, kinetic analysis and molecular dynamics were undertaken to understand how this mutation disrupts the catalytic triad and determines a "silent" phenotype. Low activity of patient plasma butyrylcholinesterase with butyrylthiocholine (BTC) and benzoylcholine, and values of dibucaine and fluoride numbers fit with heterozygous atypical silent genotype. Electrophoretic analysis of plasma BChE of the proband and his mother showed that patient has a reduced amount of tetrameric enzyme in plasma and that minor fast-moving BChE components: monomer, dimer, and monomer-albumin conjugate are missing. Kinetic analysis showed that the p.Val204Asp/p.Asp70Gly-p.Ala539Thr BChE displays a pure Michaelian behavior with BTC as the substrate. Both catalytic parameters Km = 265 uM for BTC, two times higher than that of the atypical enzyme, and a low Vmax are consistent with the absence of activity against suxamethonium. Molecular dynamic (MD) simulations showed that the overall effect of the mutation p.Val204Asp is disruption of hydrogen bonding between Gln223 and Glu441, leading Ser198 and His438 to move away from each other with subsequent disruption of the catalytic triad functionality regardless of the type of substrate. MD also showed that the enzyme volume is increased, suggesting a pre-denaturation state. This fits with the reduced concentration of p.Ala204Asp/p.Asp70Gly-p.Ala539Thr tetrameric enzyme in the plasma and non-detectable fast moving-bands on electrophoresis gels.

25983002	Inhibition of LDHA suppresses tumor progression in prostate cancer. A key hallmark of cancer cells is their altered metabolism, known as Warburg effect. Lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) executes the final step of aerobic glycolysis and has been reported to be involved in the tumor progression. However, the function of LDHA in prostate cancer has not been studied. In current study, we observed overexpression of LDHA in the clinical prostate cancer samples compared with benign prostate hyperplasia tissues as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and real-time qPCR. Attenuated expression of LDHA by siRNA or inhibition of LDHA activities by FX11 inhibited cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and promoted cell apoptosis of PC-3 and DU145 cells. Mechanistically, decreased Warburg effect as demonstrated by reduced glucose consumption and lactate secretion and reduced expression of MMP-9, PLAU, and cathepsin B were found after LDHA knockdown or FX11 treatment in PC-3 and DU145 cells. Taken together, our study revealed the oncogenic role of LDHA in prostate cancer and suggested that LDHA might be a potential therapeutic target.

27640183	Erythropoietin does not activate erythropoietin receptor signaling or lipolytic pathways in human subcutaneous white adipose tissue in vivo. BACKGROUND: Erythropoietin (Epo) exerts direct effects on white adipose tissue (WAT) in mice in addition to its erythropoietic effects, and in humans Epo increases resting energy expenditure and affect serum lipid levels, but direct effects of Epo in human WAT have not been documented. We therefore investigated the effects of acute and prolonged Epo exposure on human WAT in vivo. METHOD: Data were obtained from two clinical trials: 1) acute Epo exposure (rHuEpo, 400 IU/kg) followed by WAT biopsies after 1 h and 2) 10 weeks treatment with the erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) Darbepoietin-alpha. Biopsies were analyzed by PCR for Epo receptor (Epo-R) mRNA. A new and highly specific antibody (A82, Amgen) was used to evaluate the presence of Epo-R by western blot analysis in addition to Epo-R signaling proteins (Akt, STAT5, p70s6k, LYN, and p38MAPK), activation of lipolytic pathways (ATGL, HSL, CGI-58, G0S2, Perilipin, Cidea, Cidec, AMPK, and ACC), and mitochondrial biogenesis (VDAC, HSP90, PDH, and SDHA). RESULTS: No evidence of in vivo activation of the Epo-R in WAT could be documented despite detectable levels of Epo-R mRNA. CONCLUSION: Thus, in contradiction to animal studies, Epo treatment within a physiological relevant range in humans does not exert direct effects in a subcutaneous WAT.

27999109	A Critical Role for the Type I Interferon Receptor in Virus-Induced Autoimmune Diabetes in Rats. The pathogenesis of human type 1 diabetes, characterized by immune-mediated damage of insulin-producing b-cells of pancreatic islets, may involve viral infection. Essential components of the innate immune antiviral response, including type I interferon (IFN) and IFN receptor-mediated signaling pathways, are candidates for determining susceptibility to human type 1 diabetes. Numerous aspects of human type 1 diabetes pathogenesis are recapitulated in the LEW.1WR1 rat model. Diabetes can be induced in LEW.1WR1 weanling rats challenged with virus or with the viral mimetic polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C). We hypothesized that disrupting the cognate type I IFN receptor (type I IFN a/b receptor [IFNAR]) to interrupt IFN signaling would prevent or delay the development of virus-induced diabetes. We generated IFNAR1 subunit-deficient LEW.1WR1 rats using CRISPR-Cas9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats-associated protein 9) genome editing and confirmed functional disruption of the Ifnar1 gene. IFNAR1 deficiency significantly delayed the onset and frequency of diabetes and greatly reduced the intensity of insulitis after poly I:C treatment. The occurrence of Kilham rat virus-induced diabetes was also diminished in IFNAR1-deficient animals. These findings firmly establish that alterations in innate immunity influence the course of autoimmune diabetes and support the use of targeted strategies to limit or prevent the development of type 1 diabetes.

28411266	Genetic Variation at the Sulfonylurea Receptor, Type 2 Diabetes, and Coronary Heart Disease. Despite widespread clinical use in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, the impact of sulfonylurea therapy on cardiovascular outcomes remains uncertain. Studies of naturally occurring genetic variation can be used to anticipate the expected clinical consequences of a pharmacological therapy. A common missense variant in the gene encoding a component of the sulfonylurea receptor (ABCC8 p.A1369S) promotes closure of the target channel of sulfonylurea therapy and is associated with increased insulin secretion, thus mimicking the effects of sulfonylurea therapy. Using individual-level data from 120,286 participants in the UK Biobank and summary association results from four large-scale genome-wide association studies, we examined the impact of this variant on cardiometabolic traits, type 2 diabetes, and coronary heart disease. The p.A1369S variant was associated with a significantly lower risk of type 2 diabetes (odds ratio [OR] 0.93; 95% CI 0.91, 0.95; P = 1.2 x 10(-11)). The variant was associated with increased BMI (+0.062 kg/m(2); 95% CI 0.037, 0.086; P = 8.1 x 10(-7)) but lower waist-to-hip ratio adjusted for BMI, a marker of abdominal fat distribution. Furthermore, p.A1369S was associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease (OR 0.98; 95% CI 0.96, 0.99; P = 5.9 x 10(-4)). These results suggest that, despite a known association with increased weight, long-term sulfonylurea therapy may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease.

28428256	Regulation of lung endothelial permeability and inflammatory responses by prostaglandin A2: role of EP4 receptor. The role of prostaglandin A2 (PGA2) in modulation of vascular endothelial function is unknown. We investigated effects of PGA2 on pulmonary endothelial cell (EC) permeability and inflammatory activation and identified a receptor mediating these effects. PGA2 enhanced the EC barrier and protected against barrier dysfunction caused by vasoactive peptide thrombin and proinflammatory bacterial wall lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Receptor screening using pharmacological and molecular inhibitory approaches identified EP4 as a novel PGA2 receptor. EP4 mediated barrier-protective effects of PGA2 by activating Rap1/Rac1 GTPase and protein kinase A targets at cell adhesions and cytoskeleton: VE-cadherin, p120-catenin, ZO-1, cortactin, and VASP. PGA2 also suppressed LPS-induced inflammatory signaling by inhibiting the NFkB pathway and expression of EC adhesion molecules ICAM1 and VCAM1. These effects were abolished by pharmacological or molecular inhibition of EP4. In vivo, PGA2 was protective in two distinct models of acute lung injury (ALI): LPS-induced inflammatory injury and two-hit ALI caused by suboptimal mechanical ventilation and injection of thrombin receptor-activating peptide. These protective effects were abolished in mice with endothelial-specific EP4 knockout. The results suggest a novel role for the PGA2-EP4 axis in vascular EC protection that is critical for improvement of pathological states associated with increased vascular leakage and inflammation.

28487437	Hypoglycemic Effect of Combined Ghrelin and Glucagon Receptor Blockade. Glucagon receptor (GcgR) blockade has been proposed as an alternative to insulin monotherapy for treating type 1 diabetes since deletion or inhibition of GcgRs corrects hyperglycemia in models of diabetes. The factors regulating glycemia in a setting devoid of insulin and glucagon function remain unclear but may include the hormone ghrelin. Not only is ghrelin release controlled by glucose but also ghrelin has many actions that can raise or reduce falls in blood glucose level. Here, we tested the hypothesis that ghrelin rises to prevent hypoglycemia in the absence of glucagon function. Both GcgR knockout (Gcgr(-/-)) mice and db/db mice that were administered GcgR monoclonal antibody displayed lower blood glucose levels accompanied by elevated plasma ghrelin levels. Although treatment with the pancreatic b-cell toxin streptozotocin induced hyperglycemia and raised plasma ghrelin levels in wild-type mice, hyperglycemia was averted in similarly treated Gcgr(-/-) mice and the plasma ghrelin level was further increased. Notably, administration of a ghrelin receptor antagonist further reduced blood glucose levels into the markedly hypoglycemic range in overnight-fasted, streptozotocin-treated Gcgr(-/-) mice. A lowered blood glucose level also was observed in overnight-fasted, streptozotocin-treated ghrelin receptor-null mice that were administered GcgR monoclonal antibody. These data suggest that when glucagon activity is blocked in the setting of type 1 diabetes, the plasma ghrelin level rises, preventing hypoglycemia.

28777492	Gankyrin induces STAT3 activation in tumor microenvironment and sorafenib resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma. Most hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) develop as a result of chronic liver inflammation. We have shown that the oncoprotein gankyrin is critical for inflammation-induced tumorigenesis in the colon. Although the in vitro function of gankyrin is well known, its role in vivo remains to be elucidated. We investigated the effect of gankyrin in the tumor microenvironment of mice with liver parenchymal cell-specific gankyrin ablation (Alb-Cre;gankyrin(f/f) ) and gankyrin deletion both in liver parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells (Mx1-Cre;gankyrin(f/f) ). Gankyrin upregulates vascular endothelial growth factor expression in tumor cells. Gankyrin binds to Src homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP-1), mainly expressed in liver non-parenchymal cells, resulting in phosphorylation and activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Gankyrin deficiency in non-parenchymal cells, but not in parenchymal cells, reduced STAT3 activity, interleukin (IL)-6 production, and cancer stem cell marker (Bmi1 and epithelial cell adhesion molecule [EpCAM]) expression, leading to attenuated tumorigenic potential. Chronic inflammation enhances gankyrin expression in the human liver. Gankyrin expression in the tumor microenvironment is negatively correlated with progression-free survival in patients undergoing sorafenib treatment for HCC. Thus, gankyrin appears to play a critical oncogenic function in tumor microenvironment and may be a potential target for developing therapeutic and preventive strategies against HCC.

7018927	Pituitary response to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone during haloperidol-induced hyperprolactinemia. The effects of a 6-hour infusion with haloperidol on serum prolactin and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels was studied in a group of male subjects. Five hours after starting the infusions, a study of the pituitary responses to LH-releasing hormone (LH-RH) was carried out. Control patients received infusions of 0.9% NaCl solution. During the course of haloperidol infusions, significant hyperprolactinemia was found, together with an abolished pituitary response to LH-RH, as compared with responses of control subjects.

7468724	Cardiovascular complications associated with terbutaline treatment for preterm labor. Severe cardiovascular complications occurred in eight of 160 patients treated with terbutaline for preterm labor. Associated corticosteroid therapy and twin gestations appear to be predisposing factors. Potential mechanisms of the pathophysiology are briefly discussed.

7668252	Cloning of human very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase and molecular characterization of its deficiency in two patients. Two overlapping cDNA clones (1, 991 bp and 736 bp, respectively) encoding the precursor of human mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (VLCAD) were cloned and sequenced. The cDNA inserts of these clones together encompass a region of 2, 177 bases, encoding the entire protein of 655 amino acids, including a 40-amino acid leader peptide and a 615-amino acid mature polypeptide. PCR-amplified VLCAD cDNAs were sequenced in cultured fibroblasts from two VLCAD-deficient patients. In both patients, a 105-bp deletion encompassing bases 1078-1182 in VLCAD cDNA was identified. The deletion seems to occur due to exon skipping during processing of VLCAD pre-mRNA. This is the first demonstration of a mutation causing VLCAD deficiency. Quantitative cDNA expression of normal human VLCAD was performed in the patients fibroblasts, using vaccinia viral system, which demonstrated that the deficiency of the normal VLCAD protein causes impaired long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation activity in the patients fibroblasts. In patient fibroblasts, raising VLCAD activity to approximately 20% of normal control fibroblast activity raised palmitic acid beta-oxidation flux to the level found in control fibroblasts, which may offer important information for the rational design of future somatic gene therapy for VLCAD deficiency.. 

7905839	Human mu opiate receptor. cDNA and genomic clones, pharmacologic characterization and chromosomal assignment. A human mu opiate receptor cDNA has been identified from a cerebral cortical cDNA library using sequences from the rat mu opiate receptor cDNA. The human mu opiate receptor (h mu OR1) shares 95% amino acid identity with the rat sequence. The expressed mu OR1 recognized tested opiate drugs and opioid peptides in a sodium- and GTP-sensitive fashion with affinities virtually identical to those displayed by the rat mu opiate receptor. Effects on cyclic AMP are similar to those noted for the rat mu opiate receptor. An 18 kb genomic clone hybridizing with the h mu OR1 cDNA contains 63 and 489 bp exonic sequences flanked by splice donor/acceptor sequences. Analysis of hybridization to DNA prepared from human rodent hybrid cell lines and chromosomal in situ hybridization studies indicate localization to 6q24-25. An MspI polymorphism, producing a 3.7 kb band, may prove useful in assessing this gene's involvement in neuropsychiatric disorders involving opiatergic systems.

8002973	Adrenoleukodystrophy gene encodes an 80 kDa membrane protein. An antibody against the synthetic C-terminal peptides deduced from the cDNA of the gene responsible for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) was produced to characterize the product of the ALD gene. The antibody reacted with the 80 kDa band protein in control fibroblasts, while no bands were detected in the fibroblasts from a patient with ALD (# 163), in which mRNA of the ALD gene was undetectable based on Northern blot analysis. The 293T cells transfected with the full-coding cDNA inserted in the expression vector produced a new 80 kDa protein, as detected by Western blot. In an immunocytological study, the staining was in a punctate pattern, in the normal fibroblasts. However, there was no punctate staining in the # 163 cells. These data thus indicate that the ALD gene encodes an 80 kDa membrane protein.. 

8755918	Mutations associated with variant phenotypes in ataxia-telangiectasia. We have identified 14 families with ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) in which mutation of the ATM gene is associated with a less severe clinical and cellular phenotype (approximately 10% -15% of A-T families identified in the United Kingdom). In 10 of these families, all the homozygotes have a 137-bp insertion in their cDNA caused by a point mutation in a sequence resembling a splice-donor site. The second A-T allele has a different mutation in each patient. We show that the less severe phenotype in these patients is caused by some degree of normal splicing, which occurs as an alternative product from the insertion-containing allele. The level of the 137-bp PCR product containing the insertion was lowest in two patients who showed a later onset of cerebellar ataxia. A further four families who do not have this insertion have been identified. Mutations detected in two of four of these are missense mutations, normally rare in A-T patients. The demonstration of mutations giving rise to a slightly milder phenotype in A-T raises the interesting question of what range of phenotypes might occur in individuals in whom both mutations are milder. One possibility might be that individuals who are compound heterozygotes for ATM mutations are more common than we realize.. 

9294109	Myotonic dystrophy protein kinase is involved in the modulation of the Ca2+ homeostasis in skeletal muscle cells. Myotonic dystrophy (DM), the most prevalent muscular disorder in adults, is caused by (CTG) n-repeat expansion in a gene encoding a protein kinase (DM protein kinase; DMPK) and involves changes in cytoarchitecture and ion homeostasis. To obtain clues to the normal biological role of DMPK in cellular ion homeostasis, we have compared the resting [Ca2 +] i, the amplitude and shape of depolarization-induced Ca2 + transients, and the content of ATP-driven ion pumps in cultured skeletal muscle cells of wild-type and DMPK [-/-] knockout mice. In vitro-differentiated DMPK [-/-] myotubes exhibit a higher resting [Ca2 +] i than do wild-type myotubes because of an altered open probability of voltage-dependent l-type Ca2 + and Na + channels. The mutant myotubes exhibit smaller and slower Ca2 + responses upon triggering by acetylcholine or high external K +. In addition, we observed that these Ca2 + transients partially result from an influx of extracellular Ca2 + through the l-type Ca2 + channel. Neither the content nor the activity of Na +/K + ATPase and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2 + -ATPase are affected by DMPK absence. In conclusion, our data suggest that DMPK is involved in modulating the initial events of excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle.. 

9647766	cDNA sequence and chromosomal localization of the remaining three human nuclear encoded iron sulphur protein (IP) subunits of complex I: the human IP fraction is completed. NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain can be fragmented in a flavoprotein (FP), iron-sulfur protein (IP), and hydrophobic protein (HP) subfraction. The IP subfraction is hypothesized to be significant, since it contains important prosthetic groups highly conserved among species. We cloned the cDNA of three remaining human NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunits of this IP fraction: the NDUFS2 (49 kDa), NDUFS3 (30 kDa), and NDUFS6 (13 kDa) subunits. All presented cDNAs include the complete open reading frame (ORF), which consist of 1392, 795, and 375 base pairs, coding for 463, 264, and 124 amino acids, respectively. The latter show 96, 90, and 83% homology with the corresponding bovine translation products. The 3' untranslated regions (UTR) are complete in all three cDNAs. Polymerase chain reaction performed with DNA isolated from somatic human-rodent cell hybrids containing defined human chromosomes as template gave a human-specific signal which mapped the NDUFS2 and NDUFS3 subunits to chromosomes 1 and 11, respectively. In the case of the NDUFS6 subunit a pseudogene may be present since signals were seen in the lanes containing chromosomes 5 and 6. The NDUFS2 contains a highly conserved protein kinase C phosphorylation site and the NDUFS3 subunit contains a highly conserved casein kinase II phosphorylation site which make them strong candidates for future mutation detection studies in enzymatic complex I-deficient patients.

9746003	Inappropriate use of carbamazepine and vigabatrin in typical absence seizures. Carbamazepine and vigabatrin are contraindicated in typical absence seizures. Of 18 consecutive referrals of children with resistant typical absences only, eight were erroneously treated with carbamazepine either as monotherapy or as an add-on. Vigabatrin was also used in the treatment of two children. Frequency of absences increased in four children treated with carbamazepine and two of these developed myoclonic jerks, which resolved on withdrawal of carbamazepine. Absences were aggravated in both cases where vigabatrin was added on to concurrent treatment. Optimal control of the absences was achieved with sodium valproate, lamotrigine, or ethosuximide alone or in combination.

15459183	CD72 polymorphisms associated with alternative splicing modify susceptibility to human systemic lupus erythematosus through epistatic interaction with FCGR2B. We previously reported association of FCGR2B-Ile232Thr with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in three Asian populations. Because polymorphism of CD72, another inhibitory receptor of B cells, was associated with murine SLE, we identified human CD72 polymorphisms, tested their association with SLE and examined genetic interaction with FCGR2B in the Japanese (160 SLE, 277 controls), Thais (87 SLE, 187 controls) and Caucasians (94 families containing SLE members). Four polymorphisms and six rare variations were detected. The former constituted two major haplotypes that contained one or two repeats of 13 nucleotides in intron 8 (designated as *1 and *2, respectively). Although association with susceptibility to SLE was not detected, the *1 allele was significantly associated with nephritis among the Japanese patients (P=0.024). RT-PCR identified a novel alternatively spliced (AS) transcript that was expressed at the protein level in COS-7 transfectants. The ratio of AS/common isoforms was strikingly increased in individuals with *2/*2 genotype when compared with *1/*1 (P=0.000038) or *1/*2 (P=0.0085) genotypes. Using the two Asian cohorts, significant association of FCGR2B-232Thr/Thr with SLE was observed only in the presence of CD72-*1/*1 genotype (OR 4.63, 95% CI 1.47-14.6, P=0.009 versus FCGR2B-232Ile/Ile plus CD72-*2/*2). Minigene assays demonstrated that the 13-nucleotide repeat and 4 bp deletion within the same haplotype of intron 8 could regulate alternative splicing. The AS isoform lacks exon 8, and is deduced to contain 49 amino acid changes in the membrane-distal portion of the extracellular domain, where considerable amino acid changes are known in CD72(c) allele associated with murine SLE. These results indicated that the presence of CD72-*2 allele decreases risk for human SLE conferred by FCGR2B-232Thr, possibly by increasing the AS isoform of CD72.

15599941	Polymorphic forms of prostate specific antigen and their interaction with androgen receptor trinucleotide repeats in prostate cancer. BACKGROUND: Recent data has suggested that polymorphisms in the prostate specific antigen (PSA) may increase prostate cancer (PC) risk. The PSA gene contains a G/A substitution in the androgen response element (ARE) 1 region. The androgen receptor (AR) gene has polymorphic regions containing variable length glutamine and glycine repeats and these are believed to be associated with PC risk. The effect on PC risks from PSA polymorphisms alone and synergistically with the AR gene was examined in this report. METHODS: One hundred PC patients and an age matched cohort of 79 benign prostate hyperplasia and 67 population controls were entered in this study. DNA was extracted from blood and PSA/ARE promoter region amplified by PCR. PCR products were cut with Nhe 1 restriction enzyme to distinguish G/A alleles. AR/CAG and GGC repeat length was detected by automated fluorescence from PCR products. RESULTS: We found a significantly higher PSA/GG distribution in PC (30%) than either benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) (18%) or population controls (16%) (P = 0.025). Furthermore the GG distribution within cases was even greater in younger men (< 65 years; 42%; P = 0.012). Additionally, when PSA genotype was cross classified with CAG repeat, significantly more cases than both BPH and population controls were observed to have a short (< 22) CAG/GG genotype (P = 0.006). CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the PSA/ARE GG genotype confers an increased risk of PC especially among younger men. Moreover, we confirm previous results that a short glutamine repeat in conjunction with GG genotype significantly increases the risk of malignant disease.

15609295	Compound heterozygosity for a novel nine-nucleotide deletion and the Asn45Ser missense mutation in the glycoprotein IX gene in a patient with Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Bernard-Soulier syndrome (BSS) is a rare inherited bleeding disorder due to quantitative or qualitative abnormalities in the platelet glycoprotein (GP) Ib/IX/V complex, the major von Willebrand factor receptor. The complex comprises four subunits, each encoded by a separate gene. Several mutations have been described for each of the subunits, except for GPV, as a cause of BSS. We describe here the genetic basis of the disorder in a child with BSS. Flow-cytometric analysis of the patient's platelets showed a markedly reduced surface expression of all three glycoproteins of the GPIb/IX/V complex. DNA sequencing analysis showed the patient to be a compound heterozygote for two mutations in the GPIX gene, a novel nine-nucleotide deletion starting at position 1952 of the gene that changes asparagine 86 for alanine and eliminates amino acids 87, 88, and 89 (arginine, threonine, and proline) and a previously reported point mutation that changes the codon asparagine (AAC) for serine (AGC) at residue 45. Her mother was heterozygous for the Asn45Ser mutation, and her father, for the nine-nucleotide deletion. Our findings suggest that the additive effects of both mutations in the GPIX gene are responsible for the BSS phenotype of the patient.

16288197	Genetic homogeneity for inherited congenital microcoria loci in an Asian Indian pedigree. PURPOSE: Congenital microcoria is a rare autosomal dominant developmental disorder of the iris associated with myopia and juvenile open angle glaucoma. Linkage to the chromosomal locus 13q31-q32 has previously been reported in a large French family. In the current study, a three generation Asian Indian family with 15 congenital microcoria (pupils with a diameter <2 mm) affected members was studied for linkage to candidate microsatellite markers at the 13q31-q32 locus. METHODS: Twenty-four members of the family were clinically examined and genomic DNA was extracted. Microsatellite markers at 13q31-q32 were PCR amplified and run on an ABI Prism 310 genetic analyzer and genotyped with the GeneScan analysis. Two point and multipoint linkage analyses were performed using the MLINK and SUPERLINK programs. RESULTS: Peak two point LOD scores of 3.5, 4.7, and 5.3 were found co-incident with consecutive markers D13S154, DCT, and D13S1280. Multipoint analysis revealed a 4 cM region encompassing D13S1300 to D13S1280 where the LOD remains just over 6.0 Thus we confirm localization of the congenital microcoria locus to chromosomal locus 13q31-q32. In addition, eight individuals who had both microcoria and glaucoma were screened for glaucoma genes: myocilin (MYOC), optineurin (OPTN) and CYP1B1. Using direct sequencing a point mutation (144 G>A) resulting in a Q48H substitution in exon 1 of the MYOC gene was observed in five of the eight glaucoma patients, but not in unaffected family members and 100 unrelated controls. CONCLUSIONS: We have confirmed the localization of the congenital microcoria locus (MCOR) to 13q31-q32 in a large Asian Indian family and conclude that current information suggests this is a single locus disorder and genetically homogeneous. When combined with the initial linkage paper our haplotype and linkage data map the MCOR locus to a 6-7 cM region between D13S265 and D13S1280. The DCT locus, a member of the tyrosinase family involved in pigmentation, maps within this region. Data presented here supports the hypothesis that congenital microcoria is a potential risk factor for glaucoma, although this observation is complicated by the partial segregation of MYOC Q48H (1q24.3-q25.2), a mutation known to be associated with glaucoma in India. Fine mapping and candidate gene analysis continues with the hope that characterizing the micocoria gene will lead to a better understanding of microcoria and glaucoma causation. The relationship between microcoria, glaucoma, and the MYOC Q48H mutation in this family is discussed.

17177139	A novel mutation (E333D) in the thyroid hormone beta receptor causing resistance to thyroid hormone syndrome. Resistance to thyroid hormone (RTH) is an inherited syndrome characterized by elevated serum thyroid hormones (TH), failure to suppress pituitary thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) secretion, and variable peripheral tissue responsiveness to TH. The disorder is associated with diverse mutations in the thyroid hormone beta receptor (TRbeta). Here, we report a novel natural RTH mutation (E333D) located in the large carboxy-terminal ligand binding domain of TRbeta. The mutation was identified in a 22-year-old French woman coming to medical attention because of an increasing overweight. Biochemical tests showed elevated free thyroxine (T4: 20.8 pg/ml (normal, 8.5-18)) and triiodothyronine (T3: 5.7 pg/ml (normal, 1.4-4)) in the serum, together with an inappropriately nonsuppressed TSH level of 4.7 mU/ml (normal, 0.4-4). Her father and her brother's serum tests also showed biochemical abnormalities consistent with RTH. Direct sequencing of the TRbeta gene revealed a heterozygous transition 1284A>C in exon 9 resulting in substitution of glutamic acid 333 by aspartic acid residue (E333D). Further functional analyses of the novel TRbeta mutant were conducted. We found that the E333D mutation neither significantly affected the affinity of the receptor for T3 nor modified heterodimer formation with retinoid X receptor (RXR) when bound to DNA. However, in transient transfection assays, the E333D TRbeta mutant exhibited impaired transcriptional regulation on two distinct positively regulated thyroid response elements (F2- and DR4-TREs) as well as on the negatively regulated human TSHalpha promoter. Moreover, a dominant inhibition of the wild-type TRbeta counterpart transactivation function was observed on both a positive (F2-TRE) and a negative (TSHalpha) promoter. These results strongly suggest that the E333D TRbeta mutation is responsible for the RTH phenotype in the proposita's family.

17634480	Common germline genetic variation in antioxidant defense genes and survival after diagnosis of breast cancer. PURPOSE: The prognosis of breast cancer varies considerably among individuals, and inherited genetic factors may help explain this variability. Of particular interest are genes involved in defense against reactive oxygen species (ROS) because ROS are thought to cause DNA damage and contribute to the pathogenesis of cancer. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined associations between 54 polymorphisms that tag the known common variants (minor allele frequency > 0.05) in 10 genes involved in oxidative damage repair (CAT, SOD1, SOD2, GPX1, GPX4, GSR, TXN, TXN2, TXNRD1, and TXNRD2) and survival in 4,470 women with breast cancer. RESULTS: Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GPX4 (rs713041 and rs757229) were associated with all-cause mortality even after adjusting for multiple hypothesis testing (adjusted P = .0041 and P = .0035). These SNPs are correlated with each other (r2 = 0.61). GPX4 rs713041 is located near the selenocysteine insertion sequence element in the GPX4 3' untranslated region, and the rare allele of this SNP is associated with an increased risk of death, with a hazard ratio of 1.27 per rare allele carried (95% CI, 1.13 to 11.43). This effect was not attenuated after adjusting for tumor stage, grade, or estrogen receptor status. We found that the common allele is preferentially expressed in normal lymphocytes, normal breast, and breast tumors compared with the rare allele, but there were no differences in total levels of GPX4 mRNA across genotypes. CONCLUSION: These data provide strong support for the hypothesis that common variation in GPX4 is associated with prognosis after a diagnosis of breast cancer.

18699851	Integrated genomic and expression profiling in mantle cell lymphoma: identification of gene-dosage regulated candidate genes. Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is characterized by the t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation and several other cytogenetic aberrations, including heterozygous loss of chromosomal arms 1p, 6q, 11q and 13q and/or gains of 3q and 8q. The common intervals of chromosomal imbalance have been narrowed down using array-comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). However, the chromosomal intervals still contain many genes potentially involved in MCL pathogeny. Combined analysis of tiling-resolution array-CGH with gene expression profiling on 11 MCL tumours enabled the identification of genomic alterations and their corresponding gene expression profiles. Only subsets of genes located within given cytogenetic anomaly-intervals showed a concomitant change in mRNA expression level. The genes that showed consistent correlation between DNA copy number and RNA expression levels are likely to be important in MCL pathology. Besides several 'anonymous genes', we also identified various fully annotated genes, whose gene products are involved in cyclic adenosine monophosphate-regulated pathways (PRKACB), DNA damage repair, maintenance of chromosome stability and prevention of rereplication (ATM, ERCC5, FBXO5), energy metabolism (such as genes that are involved in the synthesis of proteins encoded by the mitochondrial genome) and signal transduction (ARHGAP29). Deregulation of these gene products may interfere with the signalling pathways that are involved in MCL tumour development and maintenance.

20086182	The six-nucleotide deletion/insertion variant in the CASP8 promoter region is inversely associated with risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Caspase 8 (CASP8) is an apoptosis-related cysteine peptidase involved in the death receptor pathway and likely in the mitochondrial pathway. A CASP8 promoter region six-nucleotide deletion/insertion (-652 6N ins/del) variant and a coding region D302H polymorphism are reportedly important in cancer development, but no reported study has assessed the associations of these genetic variations with risk of head and neck cancer. In a hospital-based study of non-Hispanic whites, we genotyped CASP8 -652 6N del and 302H variants in 1,023 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) and 1,052 cancer-free controls. Crude and adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated using unconditional logistic regression models. The CASP8 -652 6N del variant genotypes or haplotypes were inversely associated with SCCHN risk (adjusted OR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.57-0.85 for the ins/del + del/del genotypes compared with the ins/ins genotype; adjusted OR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.55-0.97 for the del-D haplotype compared with the ins-D haplotype). Furthermore, the number of the CASP8 -652 6N del (but not 302H) variant allele tended to correlate with increased levels of camptothecin-induced p53-mediated apoptosis in T lymphocytes from 170 cancer-free controls. We concluded that the CASP8 -652 6N del variant allele may contribute to the risk of developing SCCHN in non-Hispanic white populations. Further validation by population-based case-control studies and rigorous mechanistic studies is warranted.

24914936	Thyroid hormone receptor a mutation causes a severe and thyroxine-resistant skeletal dysplasia in female mice. A new genetic disorder has been identified that results from mutation of THRA, encoding thyroid hormone receptor a1 (TRa1). Affected children have a high serum T3:T4 ratio and variable degrees of intellectual deficit and constipation but exhibit a consistently severe skeletal dysplasia. In an attempt to improve developmental delay and alleviate symptoms of hypothyroidism, patients are receiving varying doses and durations of T4 treatment, but responses have been inconsistent so far. Thra1(PV/+) mice express a similar potent dominant-negative mutant TRa1 to affected individuals, and thus represent an excellent disease model. We hypothesized that Thra1(PV/+) mice could be used to predict the skeletal outcome of human THRA mutations and determine whether prolonged treatment with a supraphysiological dose of T4 ameliorates the skeletal abnormalities. Adult female Thra1(PV/+) mice had short stature, grossly abnormal bone morphology but normal bone strength despite high bone mass. Although T4 treatment suppressed TSH secretion, it had no effect on skeletal maturation, linear growth, or bone mineralization, thus demonstrating profound tissue resistance to thyroid hormone. Despite this, prolonged T4 treatment abnormally increased bone stiffness and strength, suggesting the potential for detrimental consequences in the long term. Our studies establish that TRa1 has an essential role in the developing and adult skeleton and predict that patients with different THRA mutations will display variable responses to T4 treatment, which depend on the severity of the causative mutation.

27014915	NF-kB functions as a molecular link between tumor cells and Th1/Tc1 T cells in the tumor microenvironment to exert radiation-mediated tumor suppression. Radiation modulates both tumor cells and immune cells in the tumor microenvironment to exert its anti-tumor activity; however, the molecular connection between tumor cells and immune cells that mediates radiation-exerted tumor suppression activity in the tumor microenvironment is largely unknown. We report here that radiation induces rapid activation of the p65/p50 and p50/p50 NF-kB complexes in human soft tissue sarcoma (STS) cells. Radiation-activated p65/p50 and p50/p50 bind to the TNFa promoter to activate its transcription in STS cells. Radiation-induced TNFa induces tumor cell death in an autocrine manner. A sublethal dose of Smac mimetic BV6 induces cIAP1 and cIAP2 degradation to increase tumor cell sensitivity to radiation-induced cell death in vitro and to enhance radiation-mediated suppression of STS xenografts in vivo. Inhibition of caspases, RIP1, or RIP3 blocks radiation/TNFa-induced cell death, whereas inhibition of RIP1 blocks TNFa-induced caspase activation, suggesting that caspases and RIP1 act sequentially to mediate the non-compensatory cell death pathways. Furthermore, we determined in a syngeneic sarcoma mouse model that radiation up-regulates IRF3, IFNb, and the T cell chemokines CCL2 and CCL5 in the tumor microenvironment, which are associated with activation and increased infiltration of Th1/Tc1 T cells in the tumor microenvironment. Moreover, tumor-infiltrating T cells are in their active form since both the perforin and FasL pathways are activated in irradiated tumor tissues. Consequently, combined BV6 and radiation completely suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Therefore, radiation-induced NF-kB functions as a molecular link between tumor cells and immune cells in the tumor microenvironment for radiation-mediated tumor suppression.

27959382	Bach1 siRNA attenuates bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis by modulating oxidative stress in mice. Oxidative stress plays an essential role in inflammation and fibrosis. Bach1 is an important transcriptional repressor that acts by modulating oxidative stress and represents a potential target in the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis (PF). In this study, we knocked down Bach1 using adenovirus-mediated small interfering RNA (siRNA) to determine whether the use of Bach1 siRNA is an effective therapeutic strategy in mice with bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF. Mouse lung fibroblasts (MLFs) were incubated with transforming growth factor (TGF)-b1 (5 ng/ml) and subsequently infected with recombined adenovirus-like Bach1 siRNA1 and Bach1 siRNA2, while an empty adenovirus vector was used as the negative control. The selected Bach1 siRNA with higher interference efficiency was used for the animal experiments. A mouse model of BLM-induced PF was established, and Bach1 siRNA (1x109 pfu) was administered to the mice via the tail vein. The results revealed that the Bach1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly downregulated by Bach1 siRNA. Furthermore, the MLFs infected with Bach1 siRNA exhibited increased mRNA and protein expression levels of heme oxygenase-1 and glutathione peroxidase 1, but decreased levels of TGF-b1 and interleukin-6 in the cell supernatants compared with the cells exposed to TGF-b1 alone. Bach1 knockdown by siRNA also enhanced the expression of antioxidant factors, but suppressed that of fibrosis-related cytokines in mice compared with the BLM group. Finally, the inflammatory infiltration of alveolar and interstitial cells and the destruction of lung structure were significantly attenuated in the mide administered Bach1 siRNA compared with those in the BLM group. On the whole, our findings demonstrate that Bach1 siRNA exerts protective effects against BLM-induced PF in mice. Our data may provide the basis for the development of novel targeted therapeutic strategies for PF.

28368537	Tissue-Specific Ablation of the LIF Receptor in the Murine Uterine Epithelium Results in Implantation Failure. The cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is essential for rendering the uterus receptive for blastocyst implantation. In mice, LIF receptor expression (LIFR) is largely restricted to the uterine luminal epithelium (LE). LIF, secreted from the endometrial glands (GEs), binds to the LIFR, activating the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activation of transcription (STAT) 3 (Jak-Stat3) signaling pathway in the LE. JAK-STAT activation converts the LE to a receptive state so that juxtaposed blastocysts begin to implant. To specifically delete the LIFR in the LE, we derived a line of mice in which Cre recombinase was inserted into the endogenous lactoferrin gene (Ltf-Cre). Lactoferrin expression in the LE is induced by E2, and we demonstrate that Cre recombinase activity is restricted to the LE and GE. To determine the requirement of the LIFR in implantation, we derived an additional mouse line carrying a conditional (floxed) Lifr flx/flx gene. Crossing Ltf-Cre mice with Lifr flx/flx mice generated Lifr flx/D:Ltf Cre/+ females that were overtly normal but infertile. Many of these females, despite repeated matings, did not become pregnant. Unimplanted blastocysts were recovered from the Lifr flx/D:Ltf Cre/+ uteri and, when transferred to wild-type recipients, implanted normally, indicating that uterine receptivity rather than the embryo's competency is compromised. The loss of Lifr results in both the failure for STAT3 to translocate to the LE nuclei and a reduction in the expression of the LIF regulated gene Msx1 that regulates uterine receptivity. These results reveal that uterine expression of the LIFR is essential for embryo implantation and further define the components of the LIF signaling pathway necessary for effective implantation.

28650467	Genome-wide loss-of-function genetic screening identifies opioid receptor u1 as a key regulator of L-asparaginase resistance in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia. L-asparaginase is a critical chemotherapeutic agent for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). It hydrolyzes plasma asparagine into aspartate and NH3, causing asparagine deficit and inhibition of protein synthesis and eventually, leukemic cell death. However, patient relapse often occurs due to development of resistance. The molecular mechanism by which ALL cells acquire resistance to L-asparaginase is unknown. Therefore, we sought to identify genes that are involved in L-asparaginase resistance in primary leukemic cells. By unbiased genome-wide RNAi screening, we found that among 10 resistant ALL clones, six hits were for opioid receptor mu 1 (oprm1), two hits were for carbonic anhydrase 1 (ca1) and another two hits were for ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2C (ube2c). We also found that OPRM1 is expressed in all leukemic cells tested. Specific knockdown of OPRM1 confers L-asparaginase resistance, validating our genome-wide retroviral shRNA library screening data. Methadone, an agonist of OPRM1, enhances the sensitivity of parental leukemic cells, but not OPRM1-depleted cells, to L-asparaginase treatment, indicating that OPRM1 is required for the synergistic action of L-asparaginase and methadone, and that OPRM1 loss promotes leukemic cell survival likely through downregulation of the OPRM1-mediated apoptotic pathway. Consistent with this premise, patient leukemic cells with relatively high levels of OPRM1 are more sensitive to L-asparaginase treatment compared to OPRM1-depleted leukemic cells, further indicating that OPRM1 loss has a crucial role in L-asparaginase resistance in leukemic patients. Thus, our study demonstrates for the first time, a novel OPRM1-mediated mechanism for L-asparaginase resistance in ALL, and identifies OPRM1 as a functional biomarker for defining high-risk subpopulations and for the detection of evolving resistant clones. Oprm1 may also be utilized for effective treatment of L-asparaginase-resistant ALL.Oncogene advance online publication, 26 June 2017; doi:10.1038/onc.2017.211.

15748645	Photochemoprevention of ultraviolet B signaling and photocarcinogenesis. Exposure to solar radiation, particularly its ultraviolet (UV) B component, has a variety of harmful effects on human health. Some of these effects include sunburn cell formation, basal and squamous cell cancers, melanoma, cataracts, photoaging of the skin, and immune suppression. Amongst these various adverse effects of UV radiation, skin cancer is of the greatest concern. Over the years, changes in lifestyle has led to a significant increase in the amount of UV radiation that people receive, and this consequently has led to a surge in the incidence of skin cancer. The development of skin cancer is a complex multistage phenomenon involving three distinct stages exemplified by initiation, promotion and progression stages. Each of these stages is mediated via alterations in various cellular, biochemical, and molecular changes. Initiation, the first step in the carcinogenesis process is essentially an irreversible step in which genetic alterations occur in genes that ultimately leads to DNA modification and fixation of mutation. Tumor promotion is the essential process in cancer development involving clonal expansion of initiated cells giving rise to pre-malignant and then to malignant lesions, essentially by alterations in signal transduction pathways. Tumor progression involves the conversion of pre-malignant and malignant lesions into an invasive and potentially metastatic malignant tumor. All these processes for skin cancer development involve stimulation of DNA synthesis, DNA damage and proliferation, inflammation, immunosuppression, epidermal hyperplasia, cell cycle dysregulation, depletion of antioxidant defenses, impairment of signal transduction pathways, induction of cyclooxygenase, increase in prostaglandin synthesis, and induction of ornithine decarboxylase. Photochemoprevention has been appreciated as a viable approach to reduce the occurrence of skin cancer and in recent years, the use of agents, especially botanical antioxidants, present in the common diet and beverages consumed by human population have gained considerable attention as photochemopreventive agents for human use. Many such agents have also found a place in skin care products. Although this is more common in oriental countries, its popularity is significantly growing in western countries. In this article, we have summarized the available information of laboratory studies on UVB-mediated signaling that can be exploited as targets for photochemoprevention. We suggest that the use of skin care products supplemented with proven chemopreventive agents in conjunction with the use of sunscreens along with educational efforts may be an effective strategy for reducing UV-induced photodamage and skin cancer in humans. The mechanistic basis for the use of such products is discussed.

16543197	A G1103R mutation in CRB1 is co-inherited with high hyperopia and Leber congenital amaurosis. PURPOSE: To identify the genetic basis of recessive inheritance of high hyperopia and Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) in a family of Middle Eastern origin. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The patients were examined using standard ophthalmic techniques. DNA samples were obtained and genetic linkage was carried out using polymorphic markers flanking the known genes and loci for LCA. Exons were amplified and sequenced. RESULTS: All four members of this family affected by LCA showed high to extreme hyperopia, with average spherical refractive errors ranging from +5.00 to +10.00. Linkage was obtained to 1q31.3 with a maximal LOD score of 5.20 and a mutation found in exon 9 of the CRB1 gene, causing a G1103R substitution at a highly conserved site in the protein. CRB1 is a vertebrate homolog of the Drosophila crumbs gene, which is required for photoreceptor morphogenesis, and has been associated with either retinitis pigmentosa (RP) or LCA. This sequence variant has previously been reported as a compound heterozygote in one sporadic LCA patient. CONCLUSION: Although hyperopia has been associated with LCA, it is typically moderate and variable between patients with the same mutation. In addition, some CRB1 mutations can be associated with either RP or LCA. We have shown that hyperopia and LCA are linked to the mutant CRB1 gene itself and are not dependent on unlinked modifiers.

16574712	MDMA polydrug users show process-specific central executive impairments coupled with impaired social and emotional judgement processes. In recent years working memory deficits have been reported in users of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ecstasy). The current study aimed to assess the impact of MDMA use on three separate central executive processes (set shifting, inhibition and memory updating) and also on "prefrontal" mediated social and emotional judgement processes. Fifteen polydrug ecstasy users and 15 polydrug non-ecstasy user controls completed a general drug use questionnaire, the Brixton Spatial Anticipation task (set shifting), Backward Digit Span procedure (memory updating), Inhibition of Return (inhibition), an emotional intelligence scale, the Tromso Social Intelligence Scale and the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX). Compared with MDMA-free polydrug controls, MDMA polydrug users showed impairments in set shifting and memory updating, and also in social and emotional judgement processes. The latter two deficits remained significant after controlling for other drug use. These data lend further support to the proposal that cognitive processes mediated by the prefrontal cortex may be impaired by recreational ecstasy use.

16575011	Tumor thymidylate synthase 1494del6 genotype as a prognostic factor in colorectal cancer patients receiving fluorouracil-based adjuvant treatment. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to analyze the value of germline and tumor thymidylate synthase (TS) genotyping as a prognostic marker in a series of colorectal cancer patients receiving adjuvant fluorouracil (FU) -based treatment. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty-nine colorectal cancer patients homogeneously treated with FU plus levamisole or leucovorin in the adjuvant setting were included. TS enhancer region, 3R G > C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), and TS 1494del6 polymorphisms were assessed in both fresh-frozen normal mucosa and tumor. Mutational analyses of TS and allelic imbalances were studied in all primary tumors and in 18 additional metachronic metastases. TS protein immunostaining was assessed in an expanded series of 214 tumors. Multivariate Cox models were adjusted for stage, differentiation, and location. RESULTS: Tumor genotyping (frequency of allelic loss, 26%) showed that the 3R/3R genotype was associated with a better outcome (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.38; 95% CI, 0.16 to 0.93; P = .020 for the recessive model). 3R G > C SNP genotyping did not add prognostic information. Tumor TS 1494del6 allele (frequency of allelic loss, 36%) was protective (for each allele with the deletion, based on an additive model, HR = 0.42; 95% CI, 0.22 to 0.82; P = .0034). Both polymorphisms were in strong linkage disequilibrium (D' = 0.71, P < .001), and the 3R/-6 base pair (bp) haplotype showed a significant overall survival benefit compared with the most prevalent haplotype 2R/+6bp (HR = 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.85; P = .017). No TS point mutation was detected in primary tumors or metastases. TS protein immunostaining was not associated with survival or any of the genotypes analyzed. CONCLUSION: Tumor TS 1494del6 genotype may be a prognostic factor in FU-based adjuvant treatment of colorectal cancer patients.

17074608	Valproate-induced chorea and encephalopathy in atypical nonketotic hyperglycinemia. Nonketotic hyperglycinemia is a disorder of amino acid metabolism in which a defect in the glycine cleavage system leads to an accumulation of glycine in the brain and other body compartments. In the classical form it presents as neonatal apnea, intractable seizures, and hypotonia, followed by significant psychomotor retardation. An important subset of children with nonketotic hyperglycinemia are atypical variants who present in a heterogeneous manner. This report describes a patient with mild language delay and mental retardation, who was found to have nonketotic hyperglycinemia following her presentation with acute encephalopathy and chorea shortly after initiation of valproate therapy.

18310445	Bone morphogenetic protein-4 interacts with activin and GnRH to modulate gonadotrophin secretion in LbetaT2 gonadotrophs. We have shown previously that, in sheep primary pituitary cells, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP)-4 inhibits FSHbeta mRNA expression and FSH release. In contrast, in mouse LbetaT2 gonadotrophs, others have shown a stimulatory effect of BMPs on basal or activin-stimulated FSHbeta promoter-driven transcription. As a species comparison with our previous results, we used LbetaT2 cells to investigate the effects of BMP-4 on gonadotrophin mRNA and secretion modulated by activin and GnRH. BMP-4 alone had no effect on FSH production, but enhanced the activin+GnRH-induced stimulation of FSHbeta mRNA and FSH secretion, without any effect on follistatin mRNA. BMP-4 reduced LHbeta mRNA up-regulation in response to GnRH (+/-activin) and decreased GnRH receptor expression, which would favour FSH, rather than LH, synthesis and secretion. In contrast to sheep pituitary gonadotrophs, which express only BMP receptor types IA (BMPRIA) and II (BMPRII), LbetaT2 cells also express BMPRIB. Smad1/5 phosphorylation induced by BMP-4, indicating activation of BMP signalling, was the same whether BMP-4 was used alone or combined with activin+/-GnRH. We hypothesized that activin and/or GnRH pathways may be modulated by BMP-4, but neither the activin-stimulated phosphorylation of Smad2/3 nor the GnRH-induced ERK1/2 or cAMP response element-binding phosphorylation were modified. However, the GnRH-induced activation of p38 MAPK was decreased by BMP-4. This was associated with increased FSHbeta mRNA levels and FSH secretion, but decreased LHbeta mRNA levels. These results confirm 1. BMPs as important modulators of activin and/or GnRH-stimulated gonadotrophin synthesis and release and 2. important species differences in these effects, which could relate to differences in BMP receptor expression in gonadotrophs.

19082493	Combination of polymorphisms within 5' and 3' untranslated regions of thymidylate synthase gene modulates survival in 5 fluorouracil-treated colorectal cancer patients. In the present study we explored the effect of three polymorphisms of the TS gene on overall and progression- free survival of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients subjected to 5FU chemotherapy. A 28 bp variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR), a G/C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), and a deletion of 6 bp at position 1494 were studied. The possible combined effect of these DNA polymorphisms on the clinical outcome of patients was also evaluated. A retrospective study was carried out on paraffin-embedded sections from 113 patients diagnosed of advanced CRC. TS genotyping methods were polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for VNTR and PCR, followed by restriction length fragment polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) for SNP and ins/del 6 bp. To study the combined effect of TS polymorphisms, four categories were defined accordingly to the level of expression attributed to SNP and ins/del 6 bp genotypes: C_allele 6-, C_6+/6+, G_allele6- and G_6+/6+. VNTR and ins/del 6 bp genotypes varied with tumour anatomical site: 2R/2R genotype was rare in left-sided tumours (7.0% vs. 26.3% of right-sided and 24.1% of rectal cancers; P<0.01), where the variant allele 6- was very frequent (69.0%). Instead, most patients with right-sided tumours were wild-type homozygous 6+/6+ (63.9%) (P<0.01). Heterozygous 6+/6- genotype was more frequent among tumours classified as C (50.0%) and D (76.5%) Dukes stages (P=0.05). None of the studied polymorphisms alone affected overall or progression-free survival (PFS). C_6+/6+ and G_6+/6+ combined genotypes were respectively associated to the best and worst PFS (P=0.03 when compared with each other), while combinations carrying the allele 6- determined an intermediate evolution that might be indicative of a variable response to chemotherapy. The rate of Dukes B stage tumours was unexpectedly high (59.1%) among patients with the unfavourable G_6+/6+ combination. In our study the combination of high TS expression genotypes G_6+/6+ identifies a group of high risk within CRC patients treated with 5FU.

19218574	Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p85alpha regulatory subunit gene Met326Ile polymorphism in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. BACKGROUND: Insulin resistance is a core feature of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase is an important enzyme in the early insulin signaling cascade and plays a key role in insulin-mediated glucose transport. In its regulatory subunit, p85alpha, there is a common amino acid substitution (the Met326Ile polymorphism), and this amino acid may be crucial for the function of the p85alpha regulatory subunit and PI3-kinase. METHODS: Analysis of the Met326Ile polymorphism was carried out on DNA samples from 256 PCOS patients and 283 controls. Clinical and biochemical profiles of participants were also compared. RESULTS: The genotype distribution of the Met326Ile polymorphism in the PCOS group was not different from that of the controls (Met326Met/Met326Ile/Ile326Ile rates were 73.4%/23.4%/3.2% and 70.3%/26.1%/3.6% for the PCOS and control groups, respectively, P = 0.72). The PCOS group was divided into two subgroups according to the presence of the variant 326Ile allele. Compared with those carrying at least one variant 326Ile allele, carriers with the Met326Met genotype had higher serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) {1.1 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.1-1.3] ng/ml in those with the Met326Met genotype versus 0.8 (95% CI 0.7-1.0) ng/ml in those with Ile326Ile and Met326Ile genotypes, P = 0.0073} and free testosterone levels [1.2 (95% CI 1.1-1.4) pg/ml for Met326Met genotype versus 0.9 (95% CI 0.6-1.3) pg/ml for Ile326Ile and Met326Ile genotypes, P = 0.038]. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the PI3-kinase gene Met326Ile polymorphism may not be a major determinant for the development of PCOS, but it may modulate the concentrations of serum 17-OHP or free testosterone in PCOS patients.

19996135	High-dose tranexamic Acid is associated with nonischemic clinical seizures in cardiac surgical patients. BACKGROUND: In 2 separate centers, we observed a notable increase in the incidence of postoperative convulsive seizures from 1.3% to 3.8% in patients having undergone major cardiac surgical procedures. These events were temporally coincident with the initial use of high-dose tranexamic acid (TXA) therapy after withdrawal of aprotinin from general clinical usage. The purpose of this review was to perform a retrospective analysis to examine whether there was a relation between TXA usage and seizures after cardiac surgery. METHODS: An in-depth chart review was undertaken in all 24 patients who developed perioperative seizures. Electroencephalographic activity was recorded in 11 of these patients, and all patients had a formal neurological evaluation and brain imaging studies. RESULTS: Twenty-one of the 24 patients did not have evidence of new cerebral ischemic injury, but seizures were likely due to ischemic brain injury in 3 patients. All patients with seizures did not have permanent neurological abnormalities. All 24 patients with seizures received high doses of TXA intraoperatively ranging from 61 to 259 mg/kg, had a mean age of 69.9 years, and 21 of 24 had undergone open chamber rather than coronary bypass procedures. All but one patient were managed using cardiopulmonary bypass. No evidence of brain ischemic, metabolic, or hyperthermia-induced causes for their seizures was apparent. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that use of high-dose TXA in older patients in conjunction with cardiopulmonary bypass and open-chamber cardiac surgery is associated with clinical seizures in susceptible patients.

20477932	Cocaine causes memory and learning impairments in rats: involvement of nuclear factor kappa B and oxidative stress, and prevention by topiramate. Different mechanisms have been suggested for cocaine toxicity including an increase in oxidative stress but the association between oxidative status in the brain and cocaine induced-behaviour is poorly understood. Nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) is a sensor of oxidative stress and participates in memory formation that could be involved in drug toxicity and addiction mechanisms. Therefore NFkappaB activity, oxidative stress, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity, spatial learning and memory as well as the effect of topiramate, a previously proposed therapy for cocaine addiction, were evaluated in an experimental model of cocaine administration in rats. NFkappaB activity was decreased in the frontal cortex of cocaine treated rats, as well as GSH concentration and glutathione peroxidase activity in the hippocampus, whereas nNOS activity in the hippocampus was increased. Memory retrieval of experiences acquired prior to cocaine administration was impaired and negatively correlated with NFkappaB activity in the frontal cortex. In contrast, learning of new tasks was enhanced and correlated with the increase of nNOS activity and the decrease of glutathione peroxidase. These results provide evidence for a possible mechanistic role of oxidative and nitrosative stress and NFkappaB in the alterations induced by cocaine. Topiramate prevented all the alterations observed, showing novel neuroprotective properties.

24587916	Antioxidant effects of bovine lactoferrin on dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rat. Dexamethasone- (Dex-) induced hypertension is associated with enhanced oxidative stress. Lactoferrin (LF) is an iron-binding glycoprotein with antihypertensive properties. In this study, we investigated the effect of chronic administration of LF on oxidative stress and hypertension upon Dex administration. Male Wistar rats were treated by Dex (30  u g/kg/day subcutaneously) or saline for 14 days. Oral bovine LF (30, 100, 300 mg/kg) was given from day 8 to 14 in a reversal study. In a prevention study, rats received 4 days of LF treatment followed by Dex and continued during the test period. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured using tail-cuff method. Thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoid activity. Plasma hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) concentration and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) value were determined. Dexamethasone significantly increased SBP and plasma H2O2 level and decreased thymus and body weights. LF lowered (P < 0.01) and dose dependently prevented (P < 0.001) Dex-induced hypertension. LF prevented body weight loss and significantly reduced the elevated plasma H2O2 and increased FRAP values. Chronic administration of LF strongly reduced the blood pressure and production of ROS and improved antioxidant capacity in Dex-induced hypertension, suggesting the role of inhibition of oxidative stress as another mechanism of antihypertensive action of LF.

24743235	IL-3 and CSF-1 interact to promote generation of CD11c+ IL-10-producing macrophages. Unraveling the mechanisms of hematopoiesis regulated by multiple cytokines remains a challenge in hematology. IL-3 is an allergic cytokine with the multilineage potential, while CSF-1 is produced in the steady state with restricted lineage coverage. Here, we uncovered an instructive role of CSF-1 in IL-3-mediated hematopoiesis. CSF-1 significantly promoted IL-3-driven CD11c+ cell expansion and dampened basophil and mast cell generation from C57BL/6 bone marrow. Further studies indicated that the CSF-1/CSF-1R axis contributed significantly to IL-3-induced CD11c+ cell generation through enhancing c-Fos-associated monopoiesis. CD11c+ cells induced by IL-3 or IL-3/CSF-1 were competent in cellular maturation and endocytosis. Both IL-3 and IL-3/CSF-1 cells lacked classical dendritic cell appearance and resembled macrophages in morphology. Both populations produced a high level of IL-10, in addition to IL-1, IL-6 and TNFa, in response to LPS, and were relatively poor T cell stimulators. Collectively, these findings reveal a role for CSF-1 in mediating the IL-3 hematopoietic pathway through monopoiesis, which regulates expansion of CD11c+ macrophages.

28348168	FGFR2 is required for airway basal cell self-renewal and terminal differentiation. Airway stem cells slowly self-renew and produce differentiated progeny to maintain homeostasis throughout the lifespan of an individual. Mutations in the molecular regulators of these processes may drive cancer or degenerative disease, but are also potential therapeutic targets. Conditionally deleting one copy of FGF receptor 2 (FGFR2) in adult mouse airway basal cells results in self-renewal and differentiation phenotypes. We show that FGFR2 signalling correlates with maintenance of expression of a key transcription factor for basal cell self-renewal and differentiation: SOX2. This heterozygous phenotype illustrates that subtle changes in receptor tyrosine kinase signalling can have significant effects, perhaps providing an explanation for the numerous changes seen in cancer.

28398555	Biophysical and functional characterization of hippocalcin mutants responsible for human dystonia. Dystonia is a neurological movement disorder that forces the body into twisting, repetitive movements or sometimes painful abnormal postures. With the advent of next-generation sequencing technologies, the homozygous mutations T71N and A190T in the neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) hippocalcin were identified as the genetic cause of primary isolated dystonia (DYT2 dystonia). However, the effect of these mutations on the physiological role of hippocalcin has not yet been elucidated. Using a multidisciplinary approach, we demonstrated that hippocalcin oligomerises in a calcium-dependent manner and binds to voltage-gated calcium channels. Mutations T71N and A190T in hippocalcin did not affect stability, calcium-binding affinity or translocation to cellular membranes (Ca2+/myristoyl switch). We obtained the first crystal structure of hippocalcin and alignment with other NCS proteins showed significant variability in the orientation of the C-terminal part of the molecule, the region expected to be important for target binding. We demonstrated that the disease-causing mutations did not affect the structure of the protein, however both mutants showed a defect in oligomerisation. In addition, we observed an increased calcium influx in KCl-depolarised cells expressing mutated hippocalcin, mostly driven by N-type voltage-gated calcium channels. Our data demonstrate that the dystonia-causing mutations strongly affect hippocalcin cellular functions which suggest a central role for perturbed calcium signalling in DYT2 dystonia.

30442153	Ca2+-dependent endoplasmic reticulum stress correlation with astrogliosis involves upregulation of KCa3.1 and inhibition of AKT/mTOR signaling. BACKGROUND: The intermediate-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channel KCa3.1 was recently shown to control the phenotype switch of reactive astrogliosis (RA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: KCa3.1 channels expression and cell localization in the brains of AD patients and APP/PS1 mice model were measured by immunoblotting and immunostaining. APP/PS1 mice and KCa3.1-/-/APP/PS1 mice were subjected to Morris water maze test to evaluate the spatial memory deficits. Glia activation and neuron loss was measured by immunostaining. Fluo-4AM was used to measure cytosolic Ca2+ level in beta-amyloid (Abeta) induced reactive astrocytes in vitro. RESULTS: KCa3.1 expression was markedly associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response (UPR) in both Abeta-stimulated primary astrocytes and brain lysates of AD patients and APP/PS1 AD mice. The KCa3.1 channel was shown to regulate store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) through an interaction with the Ca2+ channel Orai1 in primary astrocytes. Gene deletion or pharmacological blockade of KCa3.1 protected against SOCE-induced Ca2+ overload and ER stress via the protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway in astrocytes. Importantly, gene deletion or blockade of KCa3.1 restored AKT/mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Consistent with these in vitro data, expression levels of the ER stress markers 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein, as well as that of the RA marker glial fibrillary acidic protein were increased in APP/PS1 AD mouse model. Elimination of KCa3.1 in KCa3.1-/-/APP/PS1 mice corrected these abnormal responses. Moreover, glial activation and neuroinflammation were attenuated in the hippocampi of KCa3.1-/-/APP/PS1 mice, as compared with APP/PS1 mice. In addition, memory deficits and neuronal loss in APP/PS1 mice were reversed in KCa3.1-/-/APP/PS1 mice. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these results suggest that KCa3.1 is involved in the regulation of Ca2+ homeostasis in astrocytes and attenuation of the UPR and ER stress, thus contributing to memory deficits and neuronal loss.

15461822	Vaccine candidates derived from a novel infectious cDNA clone of an American genotype dengue virus type 2. BACKGROUND: A dengue virus type 2 (DEN-2 Tonga/74) isolated from a 1974 epidemic was characterized by mild illness and belongs to the American genotype of DEN-2 viruses. To prepare a vaccine candidate, a previously described 30 nucleotide deletion (Delta30) in the 3' untranslated region of DEN-4 has been engineered into the DEN-2 isolate. METHODS: A full-length cDNA clone was generated from the DEN-2 virus and used to produce recombinant DEN-2 (rDEN-2) and rDEN2Delta30. Viruses were evaluated for replication in SCID mice transplanted with human hepatoma cells (SCID-HuH-7 mice), in mosquitoes, and in rhesus monkeys. Neutralizing antibody induction and protective efficacy were also assessed in rhesus monkeys. RESULTS: The rDEN2Delta30 virus was ten-fold reduced in replication in SCID-HuH-7 mice when compared to the parent virus. The rDEN-2 viruses were not infectious for Aedes mosquitoes, but both readily infected Toxorynchites mosquitoes. In rhesus monkeys, rDEN2Delta30 appeared to be slightly attenuated when compared to the parent virus as measured by duration and peak of viremia and neutralizing antibody induction. A derivative of rDEN2Delta30, designated rDEN2Delta30-4995, was generated by incorporation of a point mutation previously identified in the NS3 gene of DEN-4 and was found to be more attenuated than rDEN2Delta30 in SCID-HuH-7 mice. CONCLUSIONS: The rDEN2Delta30 and rDEN2Delta30-4995 viruses can be considered for evaluation in humans and for inclusion in a tetravalent dengue vaccine.

16418600	Genetic investigation of the TSPYL1 gene in sudden infant death syndrome. BACKGROUND: Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) constitutes the most frequent cause of death in the postperinatal period in Germany. Recently, a lethal phenotype characterized by sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes syndrome (SIDDT) was identified to be caused by loss of function mutations in the TSPYL1 gene. PURPOSE: The study's purpose was to reveal a possible role of TSPYL1 in SIDS. METHODS: DNA samples of 126 SIDS cases and 261 controls were investigated. RESULTS: We found five sequence variations, each of them causing an amino acid substitution. No Hardy Weinberg disequilibrium and no significant difference in allele frequencies between patients and controls were observed for any variation. In one female patient a p.F366L amino acid polymorphism was found heterozygous, which could not be displayed in controls. A pathogenic implication of this substitution, which is conserved in primates and rodents, cannot be ruled out completely. Because SIDDT is the result of homozygous TSPYL1 mutations, this heterozygous exchange cannot solely explain the sudden death in this child. The reported mutation associated with SIDDT (457_458insG) was not detectable in our cohort. CONCLUSION: No association of sequence variations in the TSPYL1 gene and SIDS has been found in a German cohort. Genetic analysis of TSPYL1 seems to be of limited significance in the differential diagnosis of SIDS without dysgenesis of the testes.

16720068	Possible neuroleptic malignant syndrome related to concomitant treatment with paroxetine and alprazolam. A 74-year-old man with depressive symptoms was admitted to a psychiatric hospital due to insomnia, loss of appetite, exhaustion, and agitation. Medical treatment was initiated at a daily dose of 20 mg paroxetine and 1.2 mg alprazolam. On the 10th day of paroxetine and alprazolam treatment, the patient exhibited marked psychomotor retardation, disorientation, and severe muscle rigidity with tremors. The patient had a fever (38.2 degrees C), fluctuating blood pressure (between 165/90 and 130/70 mg mm Hg), and severe extrapyramidal symptoms. Laboratory tests showed an elevation of creatine phosphokinase (2218 IU/L), aspartate aminotransferase (134 IU/L), alanine aminotransferase (78 IU/L), and BUN (27.9 mg/ml) levels. The patient received bromocriptine and diazepam to treat his symptoms. 7 days later, the fever disappeared and the patient's serum CPK levels were normalized (175 IU/L). This patient presented with symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), thus demonstrating that NMS-like symptoms can occur after combined paroxetine and alprazolam treatment. The adverse drug reaction score obtained by the Naranjo algorithm was 6 in our case, indicating a probable relationship between the patient's NMS-like adverse symptoms and the combined treatment used in this case. The involvement of physiologic and environmental aspects specific to this patient was suspected. Several risk factors for NMS should be noted in elderly depressive patients whose symptoms often include dehydration, agitation, malnutrition, and exhaustion. Careful therapeutic intervention is necessary in cases involving elderly patients who suffer from depression.

16904497	Cauda equina syndrome after epidural steroid injection: a case report. OBJECTIVE: Conventional treatment methods of lumbusacral radiculopathy are physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, oral medications, and spinal manipulative therapy. Cauda equina syndrome is a rare complication of epidural anesthesia. The following case is a report of cauda equina syndrome possibly caused by epidural injection of triamcinolone and bupivacaine. CLINICAL FEATURES: A 50-year-old woman with low back and right leg pain was scheduled for epidural steroid injection. INTERVENTION AND OUTCOME: An 18-gauge Touhy needle was inserted until loss of resistance occurred at the L4-5 level. Spread of the contrast medium within the epidural space was determined by radiographic imaging. After verifying the epidural space, bupivacaine and triamcinolone diacetate were injected. After the injection, there was a reduction in radicular symptoms. Three hours later, she complained of perineal numbness and lower extremity weakness. The neurologic evaluation revealed loss of sensation in the saddle area and medial aspect of her right leg. There was a decrease in the perception of pinprick test. Deep-tendon reflexes were decreased especially in the right leg. She was unable to urinate. The patient's symptoms improved slightly over the next few hours. She had a gradual return of motor function and ability of feeling Foley catheter. All of the symptoms were completely resolved over the next 8 hours. CONCLUSION: Complications associated with epidural steroid injections are rare. Clinical examination and continued vigilance for neurologic deterioration after epidural steroid injections is important.

17083016	Genetic polymorphism of the binding domain of surfactant protein-A2 increases susceptibility to meningococcal disease. BACKGROUND: Meningococcal disease occurs after colonization of the nasopharynx with Neisseria meningitidis. Surfactant protein (SP)-A and SP-D are pattern-recognition molecules of the respiratory tract that activate inflammatory and phagocytic defences after binding to microbial sugars. Variation in the genes of the surfactant proteins affects the expression and function of these molecules. METHODS: Allele frequencies of SP-A1, SP-A2, and SP-D were determined by polymerase chain reaction in 303 patients with microbiologically proven meningococcal disease, including 18 patients who died, and 222 healthy control subjects. RESULTS: Homozygosity of allele 1A1 of SP-A2 increased the risk of meningococcal disease (odds ratio [OR], 7.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-42.4); carriage of 1A5 reduced the risk (OR, 0.3; 95% CI, 0.1-0.97). An analysis of the multiple single-nucleotide polymorphisms in SP-A demonstrated that homozygosity for alleles encoding lysine (in 1A1) rather than glutamine (in 1A5) at amino acid 223 in the carbohydrate recognition domain was associated with an increased risk of meningococcal disease (OR, 6.7; 95% CI, 1.4-31.5). Carriage of alleles encoding lysine at residue 223 was found in 61% of patients who died, compared with 35% of those who survived (OR adjusted for age, 2.9; 95% CI, 1.1-7.7). Genetic variation of SP-A1 and SP-D was not associated with meningococcal disease. CONCLUSIONS: Gene polymorphism resulting in the substitution of glutamine with lysine at residue 223 in the carbohydrate recognition domain of SP-A2 increases susceptibility to meningococcal disease, as well as the risk of death.

17910065	A novel missense mutation in the paired domain of human PAX9 causes oligodontia. PAX9 and MSX1 are transcription factors that play essential roles in craniofacial and limb development. In humans, mutations in both genes are associated with nonsyndromic and syndromic oligodontia, respectively. We screened one family with nonsyndromic oligodontia for mutations in PAX9 and MSX1. Single stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous C139T transition in PAX9 in the affected members of the family. There were no mutations detected in the entire coding sequence of MSX1. The C139T mutation, predicted to result in the substitution of an arginine by a tryptophan (R47W) in the N-terminal subdomain, affected conserved residues in the PAX9 paired domain. To elucidate the pathogenic mechanism producing oligodontia phenotype caused by this mutation, we analyzed the binding of wild-type and mutant PAX9 paired domain protein to double-stranded DNA targets. The R47W mutation dramatically reduced DNA binding suggesting that the mutant protein with consequent haploinsufficiency results in a clinical phenotype.

18366737	The FH mutation database: an online database of fumarate hydratase mutations involved in the MCUL (HLRCC) tumor syndrome and congenital fumarase deficiency. BACKGROUND: Fumarate hydratase (HGNC approved gene symbol - FH), also known as fumarase, is an enzyme of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, involved in fundamental cellular energy production. First described by Zinn et al in 1986, deficiency of FH results in early onset, severe encephalopathy. In 2002, the Multiple Leiomyoma Consortium identified heterozygous germline mutations of FH in patients with multiple cutaneous and uterine leiomyomas, (MCUL: OMIM 150800). In some families renal cell cancer also forms a component of the complex and as such has been described as hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC: OMIM 605839). The identification of FH as a tumor suppressor was an unexpected finding and following the identification of subunits of succinate dehydrogenase in 2000 and 2001, was only the second description of the involvement of an enzyme of intermediary metabolism in tumorigenesis. DESCRIPTION: The FH mutation database is a part of the TCA cycle gene mutation database (formerly the succinate dehydrogenase gene mutation database) and is based on the Leiden Open (source) Variation Database (LOVD) system. The variants included in the database were derived from the published literature and annotated to conform to current mutation nomenclature. The FH database applies HGVS nomenclature guidelines, and will assist researchers in applying these guidelines when directly submitting new sequence variants online. Since the first molecular characterization of an FH mutation by Bourgeron et al in 1994, a series of reports of both FH deficiency patients and patients with MCUL/HLRRC have described 107 variants, of which 93 are thought to be pathogenic. The most common type of mutation is missense (57%), followed by frameshifts & nonsense (27%), and diverse deletions, insertions and duplications. Here we introduce an online database detailing all reported FH sequence variants. CONCLUSION: The FH mutation database strives to systematically unify all current genetic knowledge of FH variants. We believe that this knowledge will assist clinical geneticists and treating physicians when advising patients and their families, will provide a rapid and convenient resource for research scientists, and may eventually assist in gaining novel insights into FH and its related clinical syndromes.

18827003	A novel point mutation in the amino terminal domain of the human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) gene enhancing hGR-mediated gene expression. CONTEXT: Interindividual variations in glucocorticoid sensitivity have been associated with manifestations of cortisol excess or deficiency and may be partly explained by polymorphisms in the human glucocorticoid receptor (hGR) gene. We studied a 43-yr-old female, who presented with manifestations consistent with tissue-selective glucocorticoid hypersensitivity. We detected a novel, single, heterozygous nucleotide (G --> C) substitution at position 1201 (exon 2) of the hGR gene, which resulted in aspartic acid to histidine substitution at amino acid position 401 in the amino-terminal domain of the hGRalpha. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of action of the natural mutant receptor hGRalphaD401H. METHODS-RESULTS: Compared with the wild-type hGRalpha, the mutant receptor hGRalphaD401H demonstrated a 2.4-fold increase in its ability to transactivate the glucocorticoid-inducible mouse mammary tumor virus promoter in response to dexamethasone but had similar affinity for the ligand (dissociation constant = 6.2 +/- 0.6 vs. 6.1 +/- 0.6 nm) and time to nuclear translocation (14.75 +/- 0.25 vs. 14.25 +/- 1.13 min). The mutant receptor hGRalphaD401H did not exert a dominant positive or negative effect upon the wild-type receptor, it preserved its ability to bind to glucocorticoid response elements, and displayed a normal interaction with the glucocorticoid receptor-interacting protein 1 coactivator. CONCLUSIONS: The mutant receptor hGRalphaD401H enhances the transcriptional activity of glucocorticoid-responsive genes. The presence of the D401H mutation may predispose subjects to obesity, hypertension, and other manifestations of the metabolic syndrome.

20105280	Activated Ras alters lens and corneal development through induction of distinct downstream targets. BACKGROUND: Mammalian Ras genes regulate diverse cellular processes including proliferation and differentiation and are frequently mutated in human cancers. Tumor development in response to Ras activation varies between different tissues and the molecular basis for these variations are poorly understood. The murine lens and cornea have a common embryonic origin and arise from adjacent regions of the surface ectoderm. Activation of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling pathway induces the corneal epithelial cells to proliferate and the lens epithelial cells to exit the cell cycle. The molecular mechanisms that regulate the differential responses of these two related tissues have not been defined. We have generated transgenic mice that express a constitutively active version of human H-Ras in their lenses and corneas. RESULTS: Ras transgenic lenses and corneal epithelial cells showed increased proliferation with concomitant increases in cyclin D1 and D2 expression. This initial increase in proliferation is sustained in the cornea but not in the lens epithelial cells. Coincidentally, cdk inhibitors p27Kip1 and p57Kip2 were upregulated in the Ras transgenic lenses but not in the corneas. Phospho-Erk1 and Erk2 levels were elevated in the lens but not in the cornea and Spry 1 and Spry 2, negative regulators of Ras-Raf-Erk signaling, were upregulated more in the corneal than in the lens epithelial cells. Both lens and corneal differentiation programs were sensitive to Ras activation. Ras transgenic embryos showed a distinctive alteration in the architecture of the lens pit. Ras activation, though sufficient for upregulation of Prox1, a transcription factor critical for cell cycle exit and initiation of fiber differentiation, is not sufficient for induction of terminal fiber differentiation. Expression of Keratin 12, a marker of corneal epithelial differentiation, was reduced in the Ras transgenic corneas. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these results suggest that Ras activation a) induces distinct sets of downstream targets in the lens and cornea resulting in distinct cellular responses and b) is sufficient for initiation but not completion of lens fiber differentiation.

20846357	A novel mutation in the connexin 26 gene (GJB2) in a child with clinical and histological features of keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness (KID) syndrome. BACKGROUND: Keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness (KID) syndrome is a rare congenital ectodermal disorder, caused by heterozygous missense mutation in GJB2, encoding the gap junction protein connexin 26. The commonest mutation is the p.Asp50Asn mutation, and only a few other mutations have been described to date. AIM: To report the fatal clinical course and characterize the genetic background of a premature male neonate with the clinical and histological features of KID syndrome. METHODS: Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood and used for PCR amplification of the GJB2 gene. Direct sequencing was used for mutation analysis. RESULTS: The clinical features included hearing impairment, ichthyosiform erythroderma with hyperkeratotic plaques, palmoplantar keratoderma, alopecia of the scalp and eyelashes, and a thick vernix caseosa-like covering of the scalp. On histological analysis, features characteristic of KID syndrome, such as acanthosis and papillomatosis of the epidermis with basket-weave hyperkeratosis, were seen. The skin symptoms were treated successfully with acitretin 0.5 mg/kg. The boy developed intraventricular and intracerebral haemorrhage, leading to hydrocephalus. His condition was further complicated by septicaemia and meningitis caused by infection with extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae. Severe respiratory failure followed, and the child died at 46 weeks of gestational age (13 weeks postnatally). Sequencing of the GJB2 gene showed that the child was heterozygous for a novel nucleotide change, c.263C>T, in exon 2, leading to a substitution of alanine for valine at position 88 (p.Ala88Val). CONCLUSIONS: This study has identified a new heterozygous de novo mutation in the Cx26 gene (c.263C>T; p.Ala88Val) leading to KID syndrome.

25622904	Inactivation of Sag/Rbx2/Roc2 e3 ubiquitin ligase triggers senescence and inhibits kras-induced immortalization. Our recent study showed that SAG/RBX2 E3 ubiquitin ligase regulates apoptosis and vasculogenesis by promoting degradation of NOXA and NF1, and co-operates with Kras to promote lung tumorigenesis by activating NFkappaB and mTOR pathways via targeted degradation of tumor suppressive substrates including IkappaB, DEPTOR, p21 and p27. Here we investigated the role of Sag/Rbx2 E3 ligase in cellular senescence and immortalization of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and report that Sag is required for proper cell proliferation and Kras(G12D)-induced immortalization. Sag inactivation by genetic deletion remarkably suppresses cell proliferation by inducing senescence, which is associated with accumulation of p16, but not p53. Mechanistically, Sag deletion caused accumulation of Jun-B, a substrate of Sag-Fbxw7 E3 ligase and a transcription factor that drives p16 transcription. Importantly, senescence triggered by Sag deletion can be largely rescued by simultaneous deletion of Cdkn2a, the p16 encoding gene, indicating its causal role. Furthermore, Kras(G12D)-induced immortalization can also be abrogated by Sag deletion via senescence induction, which is again rescued by simultaneous deletion of Cdkn2a. Finally, we found that Sag deletion inactivates Kras(G12D) activity and block the MAPK signaling pathway, together with accumulated p16, to induce senescence. Taken together, our results demonstrated that Sag is a Kras(G12D)-cooperating oncogene required for Kras(G12D)-induced immortalization and transformation, and targeting SAG-SCF E3 ligase may, therefore, have therapeutic value for senescence-based cancer treatment.

26115410	Mechanisms Underlying Latent Disease Risk Associated with Early-Life Arsenic Exposure: Current Research Trends and Scientific Gaps. BACKGROUND: Millions of individuals worldwide, particularly those living in rural and developing areas, are exposed to harmful levels of inorganic arsenic (iAs) in their drinking water. Inorganic As exposure during key developmental periods is associated with a variety of adverse health effects including those that are evident in adulthood. There is considerable interest in identifying the molecular mechanisms that relate early-life iAs exposure to the development of these latent diseases, particularly in relationship to cancer. OBJECTIVES: This work summarizes research on the molecular mechanisms that underlie the increased risk of cancer development in adulthood that is associated with early-life iAs exposure. DISCUSSION: Epigenetic reprogramming that imparts functional changes in gene expression, the development of cancer stem cells, and immunomodulation are plausible underlying mechanisms by which early-life iAs exposure elicits latent carcinogenic effects. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence is mounting that relates early-life iAs exposure and cancer development later in life. Future research should include animal studies that address mechanistic hypotheses and studies of human populations that integrate early-life exposure, molecular alterations, and latent disease outcomes.

28098423	Brain-derived neurotrophic factor attenuates doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction through activating Akt signalling in rats. The clinical application of doxorubicin (Dox) is limited by its adverse effect of cardiotoxicity. Previous studies have suggested the cardioprotective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We hypothesize that BDNF could protect against Dox-induced cardiotoxicity. Sprague Dawley rats were injected with Dox (2.5 mg/kg, 3 times/week, i.p.), in the presence or absence of recombinant BDNF (0.4 ug/kg, i.v.) for 2 weeks. H9c2 cells were treated with Dox (1 uM) and/or BDNF (400 ng/ml) for 24 hrs. Functional roles of BDNF against Dox-induced cardiac injury were examined both in vivo and in vitro. Protein level of BDNF was reduced in Dox-treated rat ventricles, whereas BDNF and its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) were markedly up-regulated after BDNF administration. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor significantly inhibited Dox-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, oxidative stress and cardiac dysfunction in rats. Meanwhile, BDNF increased cell viability, inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage of Dox-treated H9c2 cells. Investigations of the underlying mechanisms revealed that BDNF activated Akt and preserved phosphorylation of mammalian target of rapamycin and Bad without affecting p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and extracellular regulated protein kinase pathways. Furthermore, the beneficial effect of BDNF was abolished by BDNF scavenger TrkB-Fc or Akt inhibitor. In conclusion, our findings reveal a potent protective role of BDNF against Dox-induced cardiotoxicity by activating Akt signalling, which may facilitate the safe use of Dox in cancer treatment.

15042318	Atrial fibrillation following chemotherapy for stage IIIE diffuse large B-cell gastric lymphoma in a patient with myotonic dystrophy (Steinert's disease). The authors describe the unusual association between diffuse B-cell gastric lymphoma and myotonic dystrophy, the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy, and sudden atrial fibrillation following one cycle of doxorubicin-based chemotherapy in the same patient. Atrial fibrillation or other cardiac arrhythmias are unusual complications in patients treated with chemotherapy. The cardiac toxicity intrinsically associated with the aggressive chemotherapy employed could function as a triggering factor for the arrhythmia in the predisposed myocardium of this patient.

15184369	Ca2+ dependence of the Ca2+-selective TRPV6 channel. Microfluorimetry and patch-clamp experiments were performed on TRPV6-expressing HEK cells to determine whether this Ca(2+)-sensing Ca(2+) channel is constitutively active. Intact cells loaded with fura-2 had an elevated intracellular free Ca(2+) concentration ((i)), which decreased to the same level such as in non-transfected cells if external Ca(2+) was chelated by EGTA. Whole cell recordings from non-transfected HEK cells and cells expressing human TRPV6 revealed the presence of a basal inward current in both types of cells when the internal solution contained 0.1 mm EGTA and 100 nm (i) or if the cytosolic Ca(2+) buffering remained undisturbed in perforated patch-clamp experiments. If recombinantly expressed TRPV6 forms open channels, one would expect Ca(2+)-induced current inhibition, because TRPV6 is negatively regulated by internal Ca(2+). However, dialyzing solutions with high  such as 1 microm into TRPV6-expressing cells did not block the basal inward current, which was not different from the recordings from non-transfected cells. In contrast, dialyzing 0.5 mm EGTA into TRPV6-expressing cells readily activated Ca(2+) inward currents, which were undetectable in non-transfected cells. Interestingly, monovalent cations permeated the TRPV6 channels under conditions where no Ca(2+) permeation was detectable, indicating that divalent cations block TRPV6 channels from the extracellular side. Like human TRPV6, the truncated human TRPV6(Delta695-725), which lacks the C-terminal domain required for Ca(2+)-calmodulin binding, does not form constitutive active channels, whereas the human TRPV6(D542A), carrying a point mutation in the presumed pore region, does not function as a channel. In summary, no constitutive open TRPV6 channels were detected in patch-clamp experiments from transfected HEK cells. However, channel activity is highly regulated by intracellular and extracellular divalent cations.

15807692	Identification of novel type VII collagen gene mutations resulting in severe recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. In this work, we studied the proband in a small nuclear family of Chinese and Dutch/German descent and identified two novel mutations in the type VII collagen gene leading to recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, Hallopeau-Siemens variant (HS-RDEB). The maternal mutation is a single base pair deletion of a cytosine nucleotide in exon 26, designated 3472delC, resulting in a frameshift and a premature termination codon (PTC) within the same exon, 7 bp downstream of the site of the mutation. The paternal mutation is a G-->A transition located at the 5' donor splice site within intron 51, designated IVS51 + 1G-->A. This mutation leads to the activation of a cryptic splice site, 32 bp downstream of the mutation site and to subsequent aberrant out-of-frame splicing, resulting in two alternative mRNA transcripts and a downstream PTC. To our knowledge, these two mutations have not been previously reported. These findings extend the body of evidence for compound heterozygous mutations leading to HS-RDEB and provide the basis for prenatal diagnosis in this family.

16157158	A Cys 23-Ser 23 substitution in the 5-HT(2C) receptor gene influences body weight regulation in females with seasonal affective disorder: an Austrian-Canadian collaborative study. Most females with seasonal affective disorder (SAD) exhibit atypical vegetative symptoms such as overeating, and weight gain when depressed. The serotonin 2C receptor (5-HT(2C)) plays a key role in control of appetite and satiety. A 5-HT(2C) Cys 23 Ser substitution, coded for by a single nucleotide polymorphism (Cys 23 Ser) within the 5-HT(2C) gene, has been shown to influence 5-HT(2C) function. We hypothesized that Cys 23 Ser influences weight regulation in females with SAD. Two independent samples from Austria (162 females with SAD, 119 controls), and Canada (90 females with SAD, 42 controls) were genotyped for Cys 23 Ser. Influence on weight regulation was analyzed within patients with atypical features. In Austrians, genotype distribution differed between patients and controls (p=0.044) and Cys 23 Ser was associated with weight (p=0.039), body mass index (BMI; p=0.038), and seasonal appetite change (p=0.031). All values were highest in Cys/Cys, intermediate in Cys/Ser, and lowest in Ser/Ser carriers. In Canadian patients, Cys 23 Ser was associated with minimum lifetime BMI (p=0.046), with lowest values in Ser/Ser carriers. Our data provide evidence that Cys 23 Ser mediates severity of weight regulation disturbances in females with SAD, and the gene-dose effect-like differences suggest a direct functional role of Cys 23 Ser in the behavioral regulation of body weight.

17192049	Cytochrome p4501A1 gene variants as susceptibility marker for prostate cancer. CYP1A1 activates environmental procarcinogens and catalyzes oxidative metabolism of estrogens and is likely to play an important role in the etiology of prostate cancer. To evaluate this phenomenon, the association between two single nucleotide polymorphisms (A to G transition in exon7 leading to amino acid substitution Ile462Val and T3801C at 3'UTR) of CYP1A1 gene in prostate cancer were analyzed in a case-control study of 100 individuals in South Indian population. The estimated relative risk was significantly high for individuals with w1/m1 genotype at 3'UTR of CYP1A1 gene (OR-4.64; 95%CI = 1.51-14.86; P < 0.01) whereas the CYP1A1 Ile/Val genotype (w2/m2) on exon 7 was found to be associated with a decreased risk for prostate cancer (OR-0.17; 95%CI = 0.02-0.89; P=0.03). A Stratified analysis of the genotypes with age of onset and tumor grade showed the w1/m1 genotype to be significantly associated with an early age of onset; however the tumor grades did not have significant association with the variant genotypes. Thus the present study indicates that individuals with the variant w1/m1 genotype exhibit an increased risk while those with w2/m2 genotype exhibit a decreased risk for prostate cancer.

18356633	An evaluation of amikacin nephrotoxicity in the hematology/oncology population. Amikacin is an aminoglycoside commonly used to provide empirical double gram-negative treatment for febrile neutropenia and other suspected infections. Strategies of extended-interval and conventional dosing have been utilized extensively in the general medical population; however, data are lacking to support a dosing strategy in the hematology/oncology population. To evaluate amikacin-associated nephrotoxicity in an adult hematology/oncology population, a prospective, randomized, open-label trial was conducted at a university-affiliated medical center. Forty patients with a diagnosis consistent with a hematologic/oncologic disorder that required treatment with an aminoglycoside were randomized to either conventional or extended-interval amikacin. The occurrence of nephrotoxicity by means of an increase in serum creatinine and evaluation of efficacy via amikacin serum concentrations with respective pathogens were assessed. The occurrence of nephrotoxicity was similar between the conventional and extended-interval groups, at 10% and 5%, respectively (P = 1.00). Six patients in the conventional group had a positive culture, compared with none in the extended-interval group (P = 0.002). The occurrence of nephrotoxicity was similar between the two dosing regimens, but the distribution of risk factors was variable between the two groups. Efficacy could not be assessed.

19696792	Single nucleotide polymorphism in ABCG2 is associated with irinotecan-induced severe myelosuppression. Irinotecan is an anti-neoplastic agent that is widely used for treating colorectal and lung cancers, but often causes toxicities such as severe myelosuppression and diarrhea. In this study, we performed a two-stage case-control association study for irinotecan-induced severe myelosuppression (grades 3 and 4). In the first stage, 23 patients who developed severe myelosuppression and 58 patients who did not develop any toxicity were examined for 170 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 14 genes involved in the metabolism and transport of irinotecan. A total of five SNPs were identified to show the possible association with severe myelosuppression (P(Fisher)<0.01) and were further examined in 7 cases and 20 controls in the second stage of the study. An intronic SNP, rs2622604, in ABCG2 showed P(Fisher)=0.0419 in the second stage and indicated a significant association with severe myelosuppression in the combined study (P(Fisher)=0.000237; P(Corrected)=0.036). Although only limited subjects were investigated, our results suggested that a genetic polymorphism in ABCG2 might alter the transport activity for the drug and elevate the systemic circulation level of irinotecan, leading to severe myelosuppression.

20226780	Zebrafish chordin-like and chordin are functionally redundant in regulating patterning of the dorsoventral axis. Chordin is the prototype of a group of cysteine-rich domain-containing proteins that bind and modulate signaling of various TGFbeta-like ligands. Chordin-like 1 and 2 (CHL1 and 2) are two members of this group that have been described in human, mouse, and chick. However, in vivo roles for CHL1 and 2 in early development are unknown due to lack of loss-of-function analysis. Here we identify and characterize zebrafish, Danio rerio, CHL (Chl). The chl gene is on a region of chromosome 21 syntenic with the area of murine chromosome 7 bearing the CHL2 gene. Inability to identify a separate zebrafish gene corresponding to the mammalian CHL1 gene suggests that Chl may serve roles in zebrafish distributed between CHL1 and CHL2 in other species. Chl is a maternal factor that is also zygotically expressed later in development and has spatiotemporal expression patterns that differ from but overlap those of zebrafish chordin (Chd), suggesting differences but also possible overlap in developmental roles of the two proteins. Chl, like Chd, dorsalizes embryos upon overexpression and is cleaved by BMP1, which antagonizes this activity. Loss-of-function experiments demonstrate that Chl serves as a BMP antagonist with functions that overlap and are redundant with those of Chd in forming the dorsoventral axis.

20579626	Identification of a frameshift mutation in Osterix in a patient with recessive osteogenesis imperfecta. Osteogenesis imperfecta, or "brittle bone disease," is a type I collagen-related condition associated with osteoporosis and increased risk of bone fractures. Using a combination of homozygosity mapping and candidate gene approach, we have identified a homozygous single base pair deletion (c.1052delA) in SP7/Osterix (OSX) in an Egyptian child with recessive osteogenesis imperfecta. The clinical findings from this patient include recurrent fractures, mild bone deformities, delayed tooth eruption, normal hearing, and white sclera. OSX encodes a transcription factor containing three Cys2-His2 zinc-finger DNA-binding domains at its C terminus, which, in mice, has been shown to be essential for bone formation. The frameshift caused by the c.1052delA deletion removes the last 81 amino acids of the protein, including the third zinc-finger motif. This finding adds another locus to the spectrum of genes associated with osteogenesis imperfecta and reveals that SP7/OSX also plays a key role in human bone development.

22051099	Variation in the CXCR1 gene (IL8RA) is not associated with susceptibility to chronic periodontitis. BACKGROUND: The chemokine receptor 1 CXCR-1 (or IL8R-alpha) is a specific receptor for the interleukin 8 (IL-8), which is chemoattractant for neutrophils and has an important role in the inflammatory response. The polymorphism rs2234671 at position Ex2+860G>C of the CXCR1 gene causes a conservative amino acid substitution (S276T). This single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) seemed to be functional as it was associated with decreased lung cancer risk. Previous studies of our group found association of haplotypes in the IL8 and in the CXCR2 genes with the multifactorial disease chronic periodontitis. In this study we investigated the polymorphism rs2234671 in 395 Brazilian subjects with and without chronic periodontitis. FINDINGS: Similar distribution of the allelic and genotypic frequencies were observed between the groups (p>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: The polymorphism rs2234671 in the CXCR1 gene was not associated with the susceptibility to chronic periodontitis in the studied Brazilian population.

22303482	TBX21 and HLX1 polymorphisms influence cytokine secretion at birth. BACKGROUND: TBX21 (T cell specific T-box transcription factor) and HLX1 (H.20-like homeobox 1) are crucial transcription factors of T(H)1-cells, inducing their differentiation and suppressing T(H)2 commitment, particularly important for early life immune development. This study investigated the influence of TBX21 and HLX1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), which have previously been shown to be associated with asthma, on T(H)1/T(H)2 lineage cytokines at birth. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMCs) of 200 neonates were genotyped for two TBX21 and three HLX1 SNPs. CBMCs were stimulated with innate (Lipid A, LpA; Peptidoglycan, Ppg), adaptive stimuli (house dust mite Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus 1, Derp1) or mitogen (phytohemagglutinin, PHA). Cytokines, T-cells and mRNA expression of T(H)1/T(H)2-related genes were assessed. Atopic diseases during the first 3 years of life were assessed by questionnaire answered by the parents. Carriers of TBX21 promoter SNP rs17250932 and HLX1 promoter SNP rs2738751 showed reduced or trendwise reduced (p<0.07) IL-5, IL-13 and TNF-a secretion after LpA-stimulation. Carriers of HLX1 SNP rs2738751 had lower IL-13 levels following Ppg-stimulation (p = 0.08). Carriers of HLX1 exon 1 SNP rs12141189 showed increased IL-5 (LpA, p = 0.007; Ppg, p = 0.10), trendwise increased IL-13 (LpA), higher GM-CSF (LpA/Ppg, p<0.05) and trendwise decreased IFN-g secretion (Derp1+LpA-stimulation, p = 0.1). Homozygous carriers of HLX1 promoter SNP rs3806325 showed increased IL-13 and IL-6 (unstimulated, p<0.03). In carriers of TBX21 intron 3 SNP rs11079788 no differences in cytokine secretion were observed. mRNA expression of T(H)1/T(H)2-related genes partly correlated with cytokines at protein level. TBX21 SNP rs11079788 carriers developed less symptoms of atopic dermatitis at 3 years of age (p = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS: Polymorphisms in TBX21 and HLX1 influenced primarily IL-5 and IL-13 secretion after LpA-stimulation in cord blood suggesting that genetic variations in the transcription factors essential for the T(H)1-pathway may contribute to modified T(H)2-immune responses already early in life. Further follow-up of the cohort is required to study the polymorphisms' relevance for immune-mediated diseases such as childhood asthma.

23791840	Superoxide dismutase 1 overexpression in mice abolishes maternal diabetes-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress in diabetic embryopathy. OBJECTIVE: Both oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress) are causal events in diabetic embryopathy. We tested whether oxidative stress causes ER stress. STUDY DESIGN: Wild-type (WT) and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)-overexpressing day 8.75 embryos from nondiabetic WT control with SOD1 transgenic male and diabetic WT female with SOD1 transgenic male were analyzed for ER stress markers: C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP), calnexin, eukaryotic initiation factor 2a (eIF2a), protein kinase ribonucleic acid (RNA)-like ER kinase (PERK), binding immunoglobulin protein, protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3, kinases inositol-requiring protein-1a (IRE1a), and the X-box binding protein (XBP1) messenger RNA (mRNA) splicing. RESULTS: Maternal diabetes significantly increased the levels of CHOP, calnexin, phosphorylated (p)-eIF2a, p-PERK, and p-IRE1a; triggered XBP1 mRNA splicing; and enhanced ER chaperone gene expression in WT embryos. SOD1 overexpression blocked these diabetes-induced ER stress markers. CONCLUSION: Mitigating oxidative stress via SOD1 overexpression blocks maternal diabetes-induced ER stress in vivo.

26027517	The autotaxin-LPA2 GPCR axis is modulated by gamma-irradiation and facilitates DNA damage repair. In this study we characterized the effects of radiation injury on the expression and function of the autotaxin (ATX)-LPA2 GPCR axis. In IEC-6 crypt cells and jejunum enteroids quantitative RT-PCR showed a time- and dose-dependent upregulation of lpa2 in response to gamma-irradiation that was abolished by mutation of the NF-kappaB site in the lpa2 promoter or by inhibition of ATM/ATR kinases with CGK-733, suggesting that lpa2 is a DNA damage response gene upregulated by ATM via NF-kappaB. The resolution kinetics of the DNA damage marker gamma-H2AX in LPA-treated IEC-6 cells exposed to gamma-irradiation was accelerated compared to vehicle, whereas pharmacological inhibition of LPA2 delayed the resolution of gamma-H2AX. In LPA2-reconstituted MEF cells lacking LPA1    '3 the levels of gamma-H2AX decreased rapidly, whereas in Vector MEF were high and remained sustained. Inhibition of ERK1    '2 or PI3K/AKT signaling axis by pertussis toxin or the C311A/C314A/L351A mutation in the C-terminus of LPA2 abrogated the effect of LPA on DNA repair. LPA2 transcripts in Lin(-)Sca-1(+)c-Kit(+) enriched for bone marrow stem cells were 27- and 5-fold higher than in common myeloid or lymphoid progenitors, respectively. Furthermore, after irradiation higher residual gamma-H2AX levels were detected in the bone marrow or jejunum of irradiated LPA2-KO mice compared to WT mice. We found that gamma-irradiation increases plasma ATX activity and LPA level that is in part due to the previously established radiation-induced upregulation of TNFalpha. These findings identify ATX and LPA2 as radiation-regulated genes that appear to play a physiological role in DNA repair. 

28101574	NEK2 serves as a prognostic biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma. Never in mitosis gene A (NIMA)-related kinase 2 (NEK2) is a microtubule-associated protein that regulates spindle assembly in human cells and is overexpressed in various malignancies. However, the role of NEK2 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains undetermined. We performed RNA-seq of the HCC cell line SMMC-7721 and the normal liver cell line HL-7702 using the Ion Proton System. NEK2 expression was detected using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction in two cell lines and 5 matched HCC and adjacent non-tumorous liver tissues. The correlation between survival and NEK2 expression was analyzed in 359 patients with HCC using RNASeqV2 data available from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) website (https://tcga-data.nci.nih.gov/tcga/). The expression of NEK2, phospho-AKT and MMP-2 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 63 cases of HCC and matched adjacent non-tumorous liver tissues. Relationships between protein expression and clinicopathological parameters were assessed, and the correlations between NEK2 with phospho-AKT and MMP-2 expressions were evaluated. A total of 610 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were revealed in the transcriptome comparison, 297 of which were upregulated and 313 were downregulated in HCC. NEK2, as the most obviously different DEG in cells and tissues from the RNA-seq data, was listed as an HCC candidate biomarker for further verification. NEK2 was overexpressed in HCC cells and tissues (P=0.002, P=0.013) and HCC patients with a high expression of NEK2 had a poor prognosis (P=0.0145). Clinical analysis indicated that the overexpression of NEK2 in HCC was significantly correlated with diolame complete (P<0.001), tumor nodule number (P=0.012) and recurrence (P=0.004). NEK2 expression was positively correlated with the expression of phospho-AKT (r=0.883, P<0.01) and MMP-2 (r=0.781, P<0.01). Overexpression of NEK2 was associated with clinicopathological characteristics and poor patient outcomes, suggesting that NEK2 serves as a prognostic biomarker for HCC. Alteration of NEK2 protein levels may contribute to invasion and metastasis of HCC, which may occur through activation of AKT signaling and promotion of MMP-2 expression.

15033202	Nijmegen breakage syndrome in 13% of age-matched Czech children with primary microcephaly. The Nijmegen breakage syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive chromosomal instability disorder characterized by early growth retardation, congenital microcephaly, immunodeficiency, borderline mental development, and a high tendency to lymphoreticular malignancies. Most Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients are of Slavonic origin, and all of them known so far carry a founder homozygous 5 nucleotide deletion in the NBS1 gene. Microcephaly was present in 100% of Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients in a recent large international cooperative study. The frequency of Nijmegen breakage syndrome among children with primary microcephaly was not known. Early correct diagnosis of the syndrome is crucial for appropriate preventive care and therapy. We tested 67 Czech patients of different ages with simple microcephaly for the presence of the most common mutation in the NBS1 gene. Three new Nijmegen breakage syndrome cases were detected in this cohort, representing 4.5% of the cohort. All these newly diagnosed Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients were younger than 10 months at the time of diagnosis. They were all born within a 2.5-year period. Twenty-three of the 67 children in the cohort were born within this 2.5-year period, representing a 13% incidence of Nijmegen breakage syndrome. Frequency of Nijmegen breakage syndrome heterozygotes among infants in the Czech Republic is 1: 130-158 and the birth rate is 90,000 per year, therefore in the time span of 2.5 years, three new Nijmegen breakage syndrome homozygotes are expected to be born. Therefore we assume that by DNA testing of Czech primary microcephalic children it is possible to detect all Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients to be expected. The age at correct diagnosis was lowered from 7.1 years at the time before DNA testing, to well under 1 year of age. All new Nijmegen breakage syndrome patients could receive appropriate preventive care, which should significantly improve their life expectancy and prognosis.

15198485	Evaluation of the Lys198Asn and -134delA genetic polymorphisms of the endothelin-1 gene. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor and shows various pharmacological responses. Two single nucleotide polymorphisms in the ET-1 gene (EDN1) have been reported to be associated with blood pressure (BP). One is the Lys198Asn polymorphism, which showed a positive association with BP in overweight people. Another is the 3A/4A polymorphism (-134delA) located in the 5'-untranslated region. In this study, we investigated the expression of the Lys198Asn polymorphism in ET-1 in vitro, as well as the association between either of the two polymorphisms and the plasma ET-1 level. We expressed both the major (Lys-type) and minor type (Asn-type) preproET-1 in three different cell lines, and measured the levels of ET-1 and big ET-1 in the culture supernatant. There was no significant difference in the levels of ET-1 or big ET-1 between the Asn-type and Lys-type transfectant. In the association study, the plasma levels of ET-1 in 54 hypertensive patients having an amino acid substitution from Lys to Asn at position 198 were not different from those of hypertensives without the substitution. However, we found a significant difference in ET-1 levels between individuals with the 3A/3A and 3A/4A genotypes. Our transient expression study indicates that the Lys198Asn polymorphism may not directly affect ET-1 and big ET-1 production. Another variant in the EDN1 gene in linkage disequilibrium with the Lys198Asn polymorphism may be responsible for the association with BP, or the interaction between the EDN1 Lys198Asn polymorphism and other factors such as obesity may be involved in the mechanisms elevating BP in vivo.

16120104	A single-nucleotide polymorphism in the 5'-untranslated region of the hPER2 gene is associated with diurnal preference. The PERIOD2 (PER2) gene is a key component of the molecular mechanism that generates circadian rhythms in mammals. A missense mutation in the human PER2 gene has previously been linked to advanced sleep phase syndrome (ASPS). We have investigated three other single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the hPER2 gene, one downstream of the transcription start site (C-1228T), one in exon 2 in the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) (C111G), and one missense mutation (G3853A) causing a glycine to glutamine substitution in the predicted protein. Subjects selected from a group of 484 volunteers for extreme morning or evening preference, or intermediate diurnal preference were genotyped with regard to the three polymorphisms (n=35 for each group). Whereas allele frequencies for the other two polymorphisms did not differ significantly between any of the groups, the 111G allele frequency was significantly higher in subjects with extreme morning preference (0.14) than in subjects with extreme evening preference (0.03) (Fisher's exact test, two-sided P value=0.031, odds ratio=5.67). No significant difference in 111G allele frequency was observed between either of these groups and subjects with intermediate diurnal preference. Computer prediction indicated that the C111G polymorphism, which occurs 12 bases upstream from the translation start codon, might alter the secondary structure of the transcript. The PER2 111G allele associates with morning preference and is a potential candidate allele for ASPS.

17003357	A haplotype-based analysis of the PTPN22 locus in type 1 diabetes. A recent addition to the list of widely confirmed type 1 diabetes risk loci is the PTPN22 gene encoding a lymphoid-specific phosphatase (Lyp). However, evidence supporting a role for PTPN22 in type 1 diabetes derives entirely from the study of just one coding single nucleotide polymorphism, 1858C/T. In the current study, the haplotype structure of the PTPN22 region was determined, and individual haplotypes were tested for association with type 1 diabetes in family-based tests. The 1858T risk allele occurred on only a single haplotype that was strongly associated with type 1 diabetes (P = 7.9 x 10(-5)). After controlling for the effects of this allele, two other haplotypes were observed to be weakly associated with type 1 diabetes (P < 0.05). Sequencing of the coding region of PTPN22 on these haplotypes revealed a novel variant (2250G/C) predicted to result in a nonsynonymous amino acid substitution. Analysis of PTPN22 transcripts from a subject heterozygous for this variant indicated that it interfered with normal mRNA splicing, resulting in a premature termination codon after exon 17. These results support the conclusion that the 1858C/T allele is the major risk variant for type 1 diabetes in the PTPN22 locus, but they suggest that additional infrequent coding variants at PTPN22 may also contribute to type 1 diabetes risk.

17277899	Polymorphic Alu insertions and the genetic structure of Iberian Basques. Eight Alu sequences (ACE, TPA25, PV92, APO, FXIIIB, D1, A25 and B65) were analyzed in two samples from Navarre and Guipuzcoa provinces (Basque Country, Spain). Alu data for other European, Caucasus and North African populations were compiled from the literature for comparison purposes to assess the genetic relationships of the Basques in a broader geographic context. Results of both MDS plot and AMOVA revealed spatial heterogeneity among these three population clusters clearly defined by geography. On the contrary, no substantial genetic heterogeneity was found between the Basque samples, or between Basques and other Europeans (excluding Caucasus populations). Moreover, the genetic information obtained from Alu data conflicts with hypotheses linking the origin of Basques with populations from North Africa (Berbers) or from the Caucasus region (Georgia). In order to explain the reduced genetic heterogeneity detected by Alu insertions among Basque subpopulations, values of the Wright's F(ST )statistic were estimated for both Alu markers and a set of short tandem repeats (STRs) in terms of two geographical scales: (1) the Basque Country, (2) Europe (including Basques). In the Basque area, estimates of Wahlund's effect for both genetic markers showed no statistical difference between Basque subpopulations. However, when this analysis was performed on a European scale, F(ST) values were significantly higher for Alu insertions than for STR alleles. From these results, we suggest that the spatial heterogeneity of the Basque gene pool identified in previous polymorphism studies is relatively recent and probably caused by a differential process of genetic admixture with non-Basque neighboring populations modulated by the effect of a linguistic barrier to random mating.

17628794	Manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) gene polymorphisms in urolithiasis. Polymorphism in manganese superoxide dismutase gene (Mn-SOD) is a new approach to identify its probable association with urolithiasis. Oxidative stress may be involved in the development of stone formation in the renal system. MnSOD is one of the primary enzymes that directly scavenges potential harmful oxidizing species. A valine (Val) to alanine (Ala) substitution at amino acid 16, occurring in the mitochondrial targeting sequence of the MnSOD gene, has been associated with an increase in urolithiasis risk. This study was conducted to investigate the association of MnSOD gene polymorphism with the risk of urolithiasis. We investigated the MnSOD in 66 stone-forming adults and 72 healthy volunteers. DNA was isolated from peripheral blood and genotyping was performed with PCR-based methods. Then PCR products were cut by BsaW1. Products were run on 3% agarose gel, 246 bp regions were 1-Ala-9, 164 and 82 bp products were determined as 2 Val-9. Chi-square test was used for comparison between patients and controls. In the control group the homozygote Ala allele was significantly higher than in the patient group (P < 0.01). The distribution of Ala/Val and homozygote Val alleles in the patient group was significantly higher than in the control group (P < 0.05). MnSOD genotype determination may provide a tool to identify individuals who are at risk of urolithiasis. This experiment also provides data about antioxidant status and stone formation.

19160446	P2RX7: A bipolar and unipolar disorder candidate susceptibility gene? The chromosomal region 12q24 has been previously implicated by linkage studies of both bipolar disorder and unipolar mood disorder and we have reported two pedigrees segregating both bipolar disorder and Darier's disease that show linkage across this region. The gene P2RX7 is located in this chromosomal region and has been recently reported as a susceptibility gene for bipolar disorder and unipolar depression. The non-synonymous SNP rs2230912 (resulting in amino-acid polymorphism Q460R) showed the strongest association and has been postulated to be pathogenically relevant. We have investigated this gene in a large UK case-control sample (bipolar I disorder N = 687, unipolar recurrent major depression N = 1,036, controls N = 1,204). Neither rs2230912 nor any of 8 other SNPs genotyped across P2RX7 was found to be associated with mood disorder in general, nor specifically with bipolar or unipolar disorder. Further, sequencing of our two chromosome 12-linked bipolar-Darier families showed no evidence of rare variants at P2RX7 that could explain the linkage. Our data do not provide support for rs2230912 or the other polymorphisms studied within the P2RX7 locus, being involved in susceptibility to mood disorders.

19549709	Efficacy of everolimus (RAD001) in patients with advanced NSCLC previously treated with chemotherapy alone or with chemotherapy and EGFR inhibitors. BACKGROUND: Treatment options are scarce in pretreated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. RAD001, an oral inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), has shown phase I efficacy in NSCLC. METHODS: Stage IIIb or IV NSCLC patients, with two or fewer prior chemotherapy regimens, one platinum based (stratum 1) or both chemotherapy and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (stratum 2), received RAD001 10 mg/day until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Primary objective was overall response rate (ORR). Analyses of markers associated with the mTOR pathway were carried out on archival tumor from a subgroup using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and direct mutation sequencing. RESULTS: Eighty-five patients were enrolled, 42 in stratum 1 and 43 in stratum. ORR was 4.7% (7.1% stratum 1; 2.3% stratum 2). Overall disease control rate was 47.1%. Median progression-free survivals (PFSs) were 2.6 (stratum 1) and 2.7 months (stratum 2). Common > or =grade 3 events were fatigue, dyspnea, stomatitis, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Pneumonitis, probably or possibly related, mainly grade 1/2, occurred in 25%. Cox regression analysis of IHC scores found that only phospho AKT (pAKT) was a significant independent predictor of worse PFS. CONCLUSIONS: RAD001 10 mg/day was well tolerated, showing modest clinical activity in pretreated NSCLC. Evaluation of RAD001 plus standard therapy for metastatic NSCLC continues.

19891556	Clopidogrel pharmacogenomics and risk of inadequate platelet inhibition: US FDA recommendations. Antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel is the current standard of care for coronary artery disease patients undergoing a percutaneous coronary intervention. However, approximately 25% of patients experience a subtherapeutic antiplatelet response. Clopidogrel is a prodrug that undergoes hepatic biotransformation by CYP2C19 into its active metabolite. Several studies have reported that, compared with wild-type individuals, CYP2C19 variant allele carriers exhibit a significantly lower capacity to metabolize clopidogrel into its active metabolite and inhibit platelet activation, and are therefore at significantly higher risk of adverse cardiovascular events. Consequently, the US FDA has recently changed clopidogrel's prescribing information to highlight the impact of CYP2C19 genotype on clopidogrel pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and clinical response. Future studies remain necessary to develop effective personalized therapeutic strategies for CYP2C19 variant allele carriers and other individuals at risk for clopidogrel nonresponsiveness.

20367983	Mutation analysis in a Chinese family with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. BACKGROUND: Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an autosomal dominant cancer syndrome which is caused by germline mutations of the tumor suppressor gene MEN1. This study aimed to identify mutations in a Chinese pedigree with MEN1. METHODS: A large Chinese family with MEN1 was collected. All of the coded regions and their adjacent sequences of the MEN1 gene were amplified and sequenced. RESULTS: In this family, a heterozygous cytosine insertion in exon 10 (c.1546_1547insC) inducing a frame shift mutation of MEN1 was found in the proband and the other two suffering members of his family. This mutation was linked to a novel single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in intron 3 (IVS3 + 18C > T). CONCLUSIONS: The mutation in exon 10 of MEN1 gene might induce development of parathyroid hyperplasia and pituitary adenoma and cosegregate with MEN1 syndrome. The significance of the new found IVS3 + 18C > T of MEN1 needs a further investigation.

22180037	Genetic polymorphism of the glutathione-S-transferase P1 gene (GSTP1) and susceptibility to prostate cancer in the Kashmiri population. Glutathione-S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) is a critical enzyme of the phase II detoxification pathway. One of the common functional polymorphisms of GSTP1 is A > G at nucleotide 313, which results in an amino acid substitution (Ile105Val) at the substrate binding site of GSTP1 and reduces catalytic activity of GSTP1. To investigate the GSTP1 Ile105Val genotype frequency in prostate cancer cases in the Kashmiri population, we designed a case-control study, in which 50 prostate cancer cases and 45 benign prostate hyperplasia cases were studied for GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphism, compared to 80 controls taken from the general population, employing the PCR-RFLP technique. We found the frequency of the three different genotypes of GSTP1 Ile105Val in our ethnic Kashmir population, i.e., Ile/Ile, Ile/Val and Val/Val, to be 52.4, 33.3 and 14.3% among prostate cancer cases, 48.5, 37.5 and 14% among benign prostate hyperplasia cases and 73.8, 21.3 and 5% in the control population, respectively. There was a significant association between the GSTP1 Ile/Val genotype and the advanced age group among the cases. We conclude that GSTP1 Ile/Val polymorphism is involved in the risk of prostate cancer development in our population.

24742750	Availability of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes in assessment of drug potential for QT prolongation. Field potential duration (FPD) in human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPS-CMs), which can express QT interval in an electrocardiogram, is reported to be a useful tool to predict K(+) channel and Ca(2+) channel blocker effects on QT interval. However, there is no report showing that this technique can be used to predict multichannel blocker potential for QT prolongation. The aim of this study is to show that FPD from MEA (Multielectrode array) of hiPS-CMs can detect QT prolongation induced by multichannel blockers. hiPS-CMs were seeded onto MEA and FPD was measured for 2min every 10min for 30min after drug exposure for the vehicle and each drug concentration. IKr and IKs blockers concentration-dependently prolonged corrected FPD (FPDc), whereas Ca(2+) channel blockers concentration-dependently shortened FPDc. Also, the multichannel blockers Amiodarone, Paroxetine, Terfenadine and Citalopram prolonged FPDc in a concentration dependent manner. Finally, the IKr blockers, Terfenadine and Citalopram, which are reported to cause Torsade de Pointes (TdP) in clinical practice, produced early afterdepolarization (EAD). hiPS-CMs using MEA system and FPDc can predict the effects of drug candidates on QT interval. This study also shows that this assay can help detect EAD for drugs with TdP potential.

26270232	Serum levels of chemokines CCL4 and CCL5 in cirrhotic patients indicate the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Most hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) are diagnosed at an advanced stage. The prognostic value of serum tumour markers alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (DCP) is limited. The aim of our study is to evaluate the diagnostic value of serum growth factors, apoptotic and inflammatory mediators of cirrhotic patients with and without HCC. METHODS: Serum samples were collected from cirrhotic potential liver transplant patients (LTx) with (n=61) and without HCC (n=78) as well as from healthy controls (HCs; n=39). Serum concentrations of CRP, neopterin and IL-6 as markers of inflammation and thrombopoietin (TPO), GCSF, FGF basic and VEGF, HMGB1, CK-18 (M65) and CK18 fragment (M30) and a panel of proinflammatory chemokines (CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, CXCL5 and IL-8) were measured. Chi square, Fisher exact, Mann-Whitney U-tests, ROC curve analysis and forward stepwise logistic regression analyses were applied. RESULTS: Patients with HCC had higher serum TPO and chemokines (P   <0.001 for TPO, CCL4, CCL5 and CXCL5) and lower CCL2 (P=0.008) levels than cirrhotic patients without HCC. Multivariate forward stepwise regression analysis for significant parameters showed that among the studied parameters CCL4 and CCL5 (P=0.001) are diagnostic markers of HCC. Serum levels of TPO and chemokines were lower, whereas M30 was significantly higher in cirrhotic patients than in HCs. CONCLUSIONS: High serum levels of inflammatory chemokines such as CCL4 and CCL5 in the serum of cirrhotic patients indicate the presence of HCC.

28883039	Disease-associated mutations in human BICD2 hyperactivate motility of dynein-dynactin. Bicaudal D2 (BICD2) joins dynein with dynactin into a ternary complex (termed DDB) capable of processive movement. Point mutations in the BICD2 gene have been identified in patients with a dominant form of spinal muscular atrophy, but how these mutations cause disease is unknown. To investigate this question, we have developed in vitro motility assays with purified DDB and BICD2's membrane vesicle partner, the GTPase Rab6a. Rab6a-GTP, either in solution or bound to artificial liposomes, released BICD2 from an autoinhibited state and promoted robust dynein-dynactin transport. In these assays, BICD2 mutants showed an enhanced ability to form motile DDB complexes. Increased retrograde transport by BICD2 mutants also was observed in cells using an inducible organelle transport assay. When overexpressed in rat hippocampal neurons, the hyperactive BICD2 mutants decreased neurite growth. Our results reveal that dominant mutations in BICD2 hyperactivate DDB motility and suggest that an imbalance of minus versus plus end-directed microtubule motility in neurons may underlie spinal muscular atrophy.

29045486	Thiamine deficiency activates hypoxia inducible factor-1a to facilitate pro-apoptotic responses in mouse primary astrocytes. Thiamine is an essential enzyme cofactor required for proper metabolic function and maintenance of metabolism and energy production in the brain. In developed countries, thiamine deficiency (TD) is most often manifested following chronic alcohol consumption leading to impaired mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, inflammation and excitotoxicity. These biochemical lesions result in apoptotic cell death in both neurons and astrocytes. Comparable histological injuries in patients with hypoxia/ischemia and TD have been described in the thalamus and mammillary bodies, suggesting a congruency between the cellular responses to these stresses. Consistent with hypoxia/ischemia, TD stabilizes and activates Hypoxia Inducible Factor-1a (HIF-1a) under physiological oxygen levels. However, the role of TD-induced HIF-1a in neurological injury is currently unknown. Using Western blot analysis and RT-PCR, we have demonstrated that TD induces HIF-1a expression and activity in primary mouse astrocytes. We observed a time-dependent increase in mRNA and protein expression of the pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory HIF-1a target genes MCP1, BNIP3, Nix and Noxa during TD. We also observed apoptotic cell death in TD as demonstrated by PI/Annexin V staining, TUNEL assay, and Cell Death ELISA. Pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1a activity using YC1 and thiamine repletion both reduced expression of pro-apoptotic HIF-1a target genes and apoptotic cell death in TD. These results demonstrate that induction of HIF-1a mediated transcriptional up-regulation of pro-apoptotic/inflammatory signaling contributes to astrocyte cell death during thiamine deficiency.

15602202	Recurrent acute interstitial nephritis induced by azithromycin. A 14-year-old girl is reported with recurrent, azithromycin-induced, acute interstitial nephritis. The second episode was more severe than the first; and although both were treated with intensive corticosteroid therapy, renal function remained impaired. Although most cases of antibiotic induced acute interstitial nephritis are benign and self-limited, some patients are at risk for permanent renal injury.

16160878	Behavioral effects of urotensin-II centrally administered in mice. Urotensin-II (U-II) receptors are widely distributed in the central nervous system. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of U-II causes hypertension and bradycardia and stimulates prolactin and thyrotropin secretion. However, the behavioral effects of centrally administered U-II have received little attention. In the present study, we tested the effects of i.c.v. injections of U-II on behavioral, metabolic, and endocrine responses in mice. Administration of graded doses of U-II (1-10,000 ng/mouse) provoked: (1) a dose-dependent reduction in the number of head dips in the hole-board test; (2) a dose-dependent reduction in the number of entries in the white chamber in the black-and-white compartment test, and in the number of entries in the central platform and open arms in the plus-maze test; and (3) a dose-dependent increase in the duration of immobility in the forced-swimming test and tail suspension test. Intracerebroventricular injection of U-II also caused an increase in: food intake at doses of 100 and 1,000 ng/mouse, water intake at doses of 100-10,000 ng/mouse, and horizontal locomotion activity at a dose of 10,000 ng/mouse. Whatever was the dose, the central administration of U-II had no effect on body temperature, nociception, apomorphine-induced penile erection and climbing behavior, and stress-induced plasma corticosterone level. Taken together, the present study demonstrates that the central injection of U-II at doses of 1-10,000 ng/mouse induces anxiogenic- and depressant-like effects in mouse. These data suggest that U-II may be involved in some aspects of psychiatric disorders.

16288199	The promoter of inducible nitric oxide synthase implicated in glaucoma based on genetic analysis and nuclear factor binding. PURPOSE: Nitric oxide has many beneficial functions in the human body at the right amounts, but it can also be hazardous if it is produced in amounts more than needed and has therefore been studied in relation to several neurological and non-neurological disorders. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate a connection between the inducible form of Nitric Oxide Synthase, iNOS, and the neuropathological disorder glaucoma, one of the major causes of blindness in the world. In this study, we sought to establish the genetic association between iNOS and primary open angle glaucoma, POAG, and to find the functional element(s) connected with the pathogenesis of the disease. METHODS: Two microsatellites, 1 insertion/deletion, and 8 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the regulatory region of iNOS were genotyped in 200 POAG patients and 200 age-matched controls. Also, the CCTTT-microsatellite was examined for its protein-binding capability in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, EMSA. RESULTS: There was a significant difference in allele distribution of the CCTTT-microsatellite, between patients and controls. (CCTTT)14, which has been reported to have a higher activity in a reporter-construct, was significantly more abundant in POAG patients, while (CCTTT)10 and (CCTTT)13 were less common. In EMSA, the (CCTTT)14 allele exhibited specific binding of nuclear proteins. CONCLUSIONS: These results, together with other studies on this gene and the CCTTT-microsatellite, establish, for the first time, a genetic association of iNOS with POAG and suggest a regulatory function for the microsatellite.

16391785	Homozygous deletion and reduced expression of the DOCK8 gene in human lung cancer. A homozygous deletion of the DOCK8 (dedicator of cytokinesis 8) locus at chromosome 9p24 was found in a lung cancer cell line by array-CGH analysis. Cloning of the full-length DOCK8 cDNA led us to define that the DOCK8 gene encodes a protein consisting of 2,099 amino acids. DOCK8 was expressed in a variety of human organs, including the lungs, and was also expressed in type II alveolar, bronchiolar epithelial and bronchial epithelial cells, which are considered as being progenitors for lung cancer cells. DOCK8 expression was reduced in 62/71 (87%) primary lung cancers compared with normal lung tissue, and the reduction occurred irrespective of the histological type of lung cancer. 5-Aza-2'-deoxy-cytidine and/or Trichostatin A treatments induced DOCK8 expression in lung cancer cell lines with reduced DOCK8 expression. Therefore, epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation and histone deacetylation, were indicated to be involved in DOCK8 down-regulation in lung cancer cells. Further screening revealed homozygous deletions of the DOCK8 gene in a gastric and a breast cancer cell line. DOCK family proteins have been shown to play roles in regulation of migration, morphology, adhesion and growth of cells. Thus, the present results suggest that genetic and epigenetic inactivation of DOCK8 is involved in the development and/or progression of lung and other cancers by disturbing such regulations.

17250663	A novel mutation at the DFNA36 hearing loss locus reveals a critical function and potential genotype-phenotype correlation for amino acid-572 of TMC1. We ascertained a North American Caucasian family (LMG248) segregating autosomal dominant, non-syndromic, post-lingual, progressive sensorineural hearing loss. The hearing loss begins in the second decade of life and initially affects high frequencies. It progresses to profound deafness at all frequencies by the fourth or fifth decade. The phenotype co-segregates with short-tandem repeat markers flanking the TMC1 gene at the DFNA36 locus on chromosome 9q31-q21. The affected individuals carry a novel missense substitution, p.D572H (c.G1714C), of the TMC1 gene. This mutation is at the same nucleotide and amino acid position as the only other reported DFNA36 mutation, p.D572N (c.G1714A). Our observations implicate a critical function for amino acid-572 for wild-type TMC1 function or the pathogenesis of DFNA36 hearing loss. The slower progression of hearing loss associated with p.D572H, in comparison with that caused by p.D572N, may reflect a correlation of DFNA36 phenotype with TMC1 genotype.

17318851	Interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) contribute to human tooth agenesis. Phenotypic characteristics expressed in syndromes give clues to the factors involved in the cause of isolated forms of the same defects. We investigated two genes responsible for craniofacial syndromes, FGFR1 and IRF6, in a collection of families with isolated tooth agenesis. Cheek swab samples were obtained for DNA analysis from 116 case/parent trios. Probands had at least one developmentally missing tooth, excluding third molars. In addition, we studied 89 cases and 50 controls from Ohio to replicate any positive findings. Genotyping was performed by kinetic polymerase chain-reaction or TaqMan assays. Linkage disequilibrium analysis and transmission distortion of the marker alleles were performed. The same variants in the IRF6 gene that are associated with isolated orofacial clefts are also associated with human tooth agenesis (rs861019, P = 0.058; rs17015215-V274I, P = 0.0006; rs7802, P = 0.004). Mutations in IRF6 cause Van der Woude and popliteal pterygium syndromes. The craniofacial phenotypic characteristics of these syndromes include oral clefts and preferential tooth agenesis of incisors and premolars, besides pits on the lower lips. Also it appears that preferential premolar agenesis is associated with FGFR1 (P = 0.014) and IRF6 (P = 0.002) markers. There were statistically significant data suggesting that IRF6 interacts not only with MSX1 (P = 0.001), but also with TGFA (P = 0.03).

17951029	Focal dermal hypoplasia resulting from a new nonsense mutation, p.E300X, in the PORCN gene. BACKGROUND: Focal dermal hypoplasia (FDH) (OMIM 305600) is an X-linked dominant disorder of ecto-mesodermal development. Also known as Goltz syndrome, FDH presents with characteristic linear streaks of hypoplastic dermis and variable abnormalities of bone, nails, hair, limbs, teeth and eyes. The molecular basis of FDH involves mutations in the PORCN gene, which encodes an enzyme that allows membrane targeting and secretion of several Wnt proteins critical for normal tissue development. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the molecular basis of FDH in a 2-year-old Thai girl who presented at birth with depressed, pale linear scars on the trunk and limbs, sparse brittle hair, syndactyly of the right middle and ring fingers, dental caries and radiological features of osteopathia striata. METHODS: Sequencing of genomic DNA from the affected individual and both parents to search for pathogenic mutations in PORCN gene. RESULTS: DNA sequencing disclosed a heterozygous G>T substitution at nucleotide c.898 within exon 10 (NM_203475.1), converting a glutamic acid residue (GAA) to a premature termination codon (TAA). This mutation, designated p.E300X, was not detected in DNA from either parent or in 100 control chromosomes. CONCLUSION: Identification of this new de novo nonsense mutation confirms the diagnosis of FDH in this child and highlights the clinical importance of PORCN and Wnt signalling pathways in embryogenesis.

19110214	A recessive skeletal dysplasia, SEMD aggrecan type, results from a missense mutation affecting the C-type lectin domain of aggrecan. Analysis of a nuclear family with three affected offspring identified an autosomal-recessive form of spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia characterized by severe short stature and a unique constellation of radiographic findings. Homozygosity for a haplotype that was identical by descent between two of the affected individuals identified a locus for the disease gene within a 17.4 Mb interval on chromosome 15, a region containing 296 genes. These genes were assessed and ranked by cartilage selectivity with whole-genome microarray data, revealing only two genes, encoding aggrecan and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4, that were selectively expressed in cartilage. Sequence analysis of aggrecan complementary DNA from an affected individual revealed homozygosity for a missense mutation (c.6799G --> A) that predicts a p.D2267N amino acid substitution in the C-type lectin domain within the G3 domain of aggrecan. The D2267 residue is predicted to coordinate binding of a calcium ion, which influences the conformational binding loops of the C-type lectin domain that mediate interactions with tenascins and other extracellular-matrix proteins. Expression of the normal and mutant G3 domains in mammalian cells showed that the mutation created a functional N-glycosylation site but did not adversely affect protein trafficking and secretion. Surface-plasmon-resonance studies showed that the mutation influenced the binding and kinetics of the interactions between the aggrecan G3 domain and tenascin-C. These findings identify an autosomal-recessive skeletal dysplasia and a significant role for the aggrecan C-type lectin domain in regulating endochondral ossification and, thereby, height.

19592582	Matriptase-2 mutations in iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia patients provide new insights into protease activation mechanisms. Mutations leading to abrogation of matriptase-2 proteolytic activity in humans are associated with an iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia (IRIDA) due to elevated hepcidin levels. Here we describe two novel heterozygous mutations within the matriptase-2 (TMPRSS6) gene of monozygotic twin girls exhibiting an IRIDA phenotype. The first is the frameshift mutation (P686fs) caused by the insertion of the four nucleotides CCCC in exon 16 (2172_2173insCCCC) that is predicted to terminate translation before the catalytic serine. The second mutation is the di-nucleotide substitution c.467C>A and c.468C>T in exon 3 that causes the missense mutation A118D in the SEA domain of the extracellular stem region of matriptase-2. Functional analysis of both variant matriptase-2 proteases has revealed that they lead to ineffective suppression of hepcidin transcription. We also demonstrate that the A118D SEA domain mutation causes an intra-molecular structural imbalance that impairs matriptase-2 activation. Collectively, these results extend the pattern of TMPRSS6 mutations associated with IRIDA and functionally demonstrate that mutations affecting protease regions other than the catalytic domain may have a profound impact in the regulatory role of matriptase-2 during iron deficiency.

19841052	Smoking of crack cocaine as a risk factor for HIV infection among people who use injection drugs. BACKGROUND: Little is known about the possible role that smoking crack cocaine has on the incidence of HIV infection. Given the increasing use of crack cocaine, we sought to examine whether use of this illicit drug has become a risk factor for HIV infection. METHODS: We included data from people participating in the Vancouver Injection Drug Users Study who reported injecting illicit drugs at least once in the month before enrolment, lived in the greater Vancouver area, were HIV-negative at enrolment and completed at least 1 follow-up study visit. To determine whether the risk of HIV seroconversion among daily smokers of crack cocaine changed over time, we used Cox proportional hazards regression and divided the study into 3 periods: May 1, 1996-Nov. 30, 1999 (period 1), Dec. 1, 1999-Nov. 30, 2002 (period 2), and Dec. 1, 2002-Dec. 30, 2005 (period 3). RESULTS: Overall, 1048 eligible injection drug users were included in our study. Of these, 137 acquired HIV infection during follow-up. The mean proportion of participants who reported daily smoking of crack cocaine increased from 11.6% in period 1 to 39.7% in period 3. After adjusting for potential confounders, we found that the risk of HIV seroconversion among participants who were daily smokers of crack cocaine increased over time (period 1: hazard ratio [HR] 1.03, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.57-1.85; period 2: HR 1.68, 95% CI 1.01-2.80; and period 3: HR 2.74, 95% CI 1.06-7.11). INTERPRETATION: Smoking of crack cocaine was found to be an independent risk factor for HIV seroconversion among people who were injection drug users. This finding points to the urgent need for evidence-based public health initiatives targeted at people who smoke crack cocaine.

21666969	Roles of G1359A polymorphism of the cannabinoid receptor gene (CNR1) on weight loss and adipocytokines after a hypocaloric diet. BACKGROUND: A intragenic biallelic polymorphism (1359 G/A) of the CB1 gene resulting in the substitution of the G to A at nucleotide position 1359 in codon 435 (Thr), was reported as a common polymorphism in Caucasian populations. Intervention studies with this polymorphism have not been realized. OBJECTIVE: We decided to investigate the role of the polymorphism (G1359A) of CB1 receptor gene on adipocytokines response and weight loss secondary to a lifestyle modification (Mediterranean hypocaloric diet and exercise) in obese patients. DESIGN: A population of 94 patients with obesity was analyzed. Before and after 3 months on a hypocaloric diet, an anthropometric evaluation, an assessment of nutritional intake and a biochemical analysis were performed. The statistical analysis was performed for the combined G1359A and A1359A as a group and wild type G1359G as second group, with a dominant model. Results: Forty seven patients (50%) had the genotype G1359G (wild type group) and 47 (50%) patients G1359A (41 patients, 43.6%) or A1359A (6 patients, 6.4%) (mutant type group) had the genotype. In wild and mutant type groups, weight, body mass index, fat mass, waist circumference and systolic blood pressure decreased. In mutant type group, resistin (4.15 1.7 ng/ml vs. 3.90 2.1 ng/ml: P < 0.05), leptin (78.4 69 ng/ml vs 66.2 32 ng/ml: P < 0.05) and IL-6 (1.40 1.9 pg/ml vs 0.81 1.5 pg/ml: P < 0.05) levels decreased after dietary treatment. CONCLUSION: The novel finding of this study is the association of the mutant allele (A1359) with a decrease of resistin, leptin and interleukin-6 secondary to weight loss.

21810259	HIV-1 Tat activates indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase in murine organotypic hippocampal slice cultures in a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent manner. BACKGROUND: We have established that activation of the tryptophan degrading enzyme indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO) mediates the switch from cytokine-induced sickness behavior to depressive-like behavior. Because human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) Tat protein causes depressive-like behavior in mice, we investigated its ability to activate IDO in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) derived from neonatal C57BL/6 mice. METHODS: Depressive-like behavior in C57BL/6J mice was assessed by the forced swim test. Expression of cytokines and IDO mRNA in OHSCs was measured by real-time RT-PCR and cytokine protein was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). p38 MAPK phosphorylation was analyzed by western blot. RESULTS: Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of Tat (40 ng) induced depressive-like behavior in the absence of sickness. Addition of Tat (40 ng/slice) to the medium of OHSCs induced IDO steady-state mRNA that peaked at 6 h. This effect was potentiated by pretreatment with IFNg. Tat also induced the synthesis and release of TNFa and IL-6 protein in the supernatant of the slices and increased expression of the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and the serotonin transporter (SERT). Tat had no effect on endogenous synthesis of IFNg. To explore the mechanisms of Tat-induced IDO expression, slices were pretreated with the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB 202190 for 30 min before Tat treatment. SB 202190 significantly decreased IDO expression induced by Tat, and this effect was accompanied by a reduction of Tat-induced expression of TNFa, IL-6, iNOS and SERT. CONCLUSION: These data establish that Tat induces IDO expression via an IFNg-independent mechanism that depends upon activation of p38 MAPK. Targeting IDO itself or the p38 MAPK signaling pathway could provide a novel therapy for comorbid depressive disorders in HIV-1-infected patients.

25979836	Gastrointestinal hormones/neurotransmitters and growth factors can activate P21 activated kinase 2 in pancreatic acinar cells by novel mechanisms. P-21-activated kinases (PAKs) are serine/threonine kinases comprising six isoforms divided in two groups, group-I (PAK1-3)/group-II (PAK4-6) which play important roles in cell cytoskeletal dynamics, survival, secretion and proliferation and are activated by diverse stimuli. However, little is known about PAKs ability to be activated by gastrointestinal (GI) hormones/neurotransmitters/growth-factors. We used rat pancreatic acini to explore the ability of GI-hormones/neurotransmitters/growth-factors to activate Group-I-PAKs and the signaling cascades involved. Only PAK2 was present in acini. PAK2 was activated by some pancreatic growth-factors [EGF, PDGF, bFGF], by secretagogues activating phospholipase-C (PLC) [CCK, carbachol, bombesin] and by post-receptor stimulants activating PKC [TPA], but not agents only mobilizing cellular calcium or increasing cyclic AMP. CCK-activation of PAK2 required both high- and low-affinity-CCK1-receptor-state activation. It was partially reduced by PKC- or Src-inhibition, but not with PI3K-inhibitors (wortmannin, LY294002) or thapsigargin. IPA-3, which prevents PAK2 binding to small-GTPases partially inhibited PAK2-activation, as well as reduced CCK-induced ERK1/2 activation and amylase release induced by CCK or bombesin. This study demonstrates pancreatic acini, possess only one Group-I-PAK, PAK2. CCK and other GI-hormones/neurotransmitters/growth-factors activate PAK2 via small GTPases (CDC42/Rac1), PKC and SFK but not cytosolic calcium or PI3K. CCK-activation of PAK2 showed several novel features being dependent on both receptor-activation states, having PLC- and PKC-dependent/independent components and small-GTPase-dependent/independent components. These results show that PAK2 is important in signaling cascades activated by numerous pancreatic stimuli which mediate their various physiological/pathophysiological responses and thus could be a promising target for the development of therapies in some pancreatic disorders such as pancreatitis. 

27930654	Whole-Organism Developmental Expression Profiling Identifies RAB-28 as a Novel Ciliary GTPase Associated with the BBSome and Intraflagellar Transport. Primary cilia are specialised sensory and developmental signalling devices extending from the surface of most eukaryotic cells. Defects in these organelles cause inherited human disorders (ciliopathies) such as retinitis pigmentosa and Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS), frequently affecting many physiological and developmental processes across multiple organs. Cilium formation, maintenance and function depend on intracellular transport systems such as intraflagellar transport (IFT), which is driven by kinesin-2 and IFT-dynein motors and regulated by the Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) cargo-adaptor protein complex, or BBSome. To identify new cilium-associated genes, we employed the nematode C. elegans, where ciliogenesis occurs within a short timespan during late embryogenesis when most sensory neurons differentiate. Using whole-organism RNA-Seq libraries, we discovered a signature expression profile highly enriched for transcripts of known ciliary proteins, including FAM-161 (FAM161A orthologue), CCDC-104 (CCDC104), and RPI-1 (RP1/RP1L1), which we confirm are cilium-localised in worms. From a list of 185 candidate ciliary genes, we uncover orthologues of human MAP9, YAP, CCDC149, and RAB28 as conserved cilium-associated components. Further analyses of C. elegans RAB-28, recently associated with autosomal-recessive cone-rod dystrophy, reveal that this small GTPase is exclusively expressed in ciliated neurons where it dynamically associates with IFT trains. Whereas inactive GDP-bound RAB-28 displays no IFT movement and diffuse localisation, GTP-bound (activated) RAB-28 concentrates at the periciliary membrane in a BBSome-dependent manner and undergoes bidirectional IFT. Functional analyses reveal that whilst cilium structure, sensory function and IFT are seemingly normal in a rab-28 null allele, overexpression of predicted GDP or GTP locked variants of RAB-28 perturbs cilium and sensory pore morphogenesis and function. Collectively, our findings present a new approach for identifying ciliary proteins, and unveil RAB28, a GTPase most closely related to the BBS protein RABL4/IFT27, as an IFT-associated cargo with BBSome-dependent cell autonomous and non-autonomous functions at the ciliary base.

28604678	Dynamic subunit turnover in ESCRT-III assemblies is regulated by Vps4 to mediate membrane remodelling during cytokinesis. The endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III mediates membrane fission in fundamental cellular processes, including cytokinesis. ESCRT-III is thought to form persistent filaments that over time increase their curvature to constrict membranes. Unexpectedly, we found that ESCRT-III at the midbody of human cells rapidly turns over subunits with cytoplasmic pools while gradually forming larger assemblies. ESCRT-III turnover depended on the ATPase VPS4, which accumulated at the midbody simultaneously with ESCRT-III subunits, and was required for assembly of functional ESCRT-III structures. In vitro, the Vps2/Vps24 subunits of ESCRT-III formed side-by-side filaments with Snf7 and inhibited further polymerization, but the growth inhibition was alleviated by the addition of Vps4 and ATP. High-speed atomic force microscopy further revealed highly dynamic arrays of growing and shrinking ESCRT-III spirals in the presence of Vps4. Continuous ESCRT-III remodelling by subunit turnover might facilitate shape adaptions to variable membrane geometries, with broad implications for diverse cellular processes.

16167916	The effects of short-term raloxifene therapy on fibrinolysis markers: TAFI, tPA, and PAI-1. BACKGROUND: Markers of fibrinolysis, thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI), tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels were studied for the evaluation of short-term effects of raloxifene administration in postmenopausal women. METHODS: Thirty-nine postmenopausal women with osteopenia or osteoporosis were included in this prospective, controlled clinical study. Twenty-five women were given raloxifene hydrochloride (60 mg/day) plus calcium (500 mg/day). Age-matched controls (n = 14) were given only calcium. Plasma TAFI, tPA, and PAI-1 antigen levels were measured at baseline and after 3 months of treatment by commercially available ELISA kits. Variations of individuals were assessed by Wilcoxon's test. Relationship between those markers and demographic characteristics were investigated. RESULTS: Three months of raloxifene treatment was associated with a significant decrease in the plasma TAFI antigen concentrations (16% change, P < 0.01), and a significant increase in tPA antigen concentrations (25% change, P < 0.05). A significant correlation was found between baseline TAFI antigen concentrations and the duration of amenorrhea (P < 0.05; r = 0.33). CONCLUSION: We suggest that the increased risk of venous thromboembolism due to raloxifene treatment may be related to increased tPA levels, but not TAFI levels.

16781314	Ectodermal dysplasia-skin fragility syndrome resulting from a new homozygous mutation, 888delC, in the desmosomal protein plakophilin 1. We report an unusual case of an inherited disorder of the desmosomal protein plakophilin 1, resulting in ectodermal dysplasia-skin fragility syndrome. The affected 6-year-old boy had red skin at birth and subsequently developed skin fragility, progressive plantar keratoderma, nail dystrophy, and alopecia. Skin biopsy revealed widening of intercellular spaces in the epidermis and a reduced number of small, poorly formed desmosomes. Mutation analysis of the plakophilin 1 gene PKP1 revealed a homozygous deletion of C at nucleotide 888 within exon 5. This mutation differs from the PKP1 gene pathology reported in 8 previously published individuals with this rare genodermatosis. However, all cases show similar clinical features, highlighting the importance of functional plakophilin 1 in maintaining desmosomal adhesion in skin, as well as the role of this protein in aspects of ectodermal development.

16843501	DNA damage and repair in gastric cancer--a correlation with the hOGG1 and RAD51 genes polymorphisms. The cell's susceptibility to mutagens and its ability to repair DNA lesions are important for cancer induction, promotion and progression. Both the mutagens' sensitivity and the efficacy of DNA repair may be affected by variation in several genes, including DNA repair genes. The hOGG1 gene encodes glycosylase of base excision repair and RAD51 specifies a key protein in homologues recombination repair. Both can be involved in the repair of oxidative DNA lesions, which can contribute to stomach cancer. In the present work we determined the level of basal and oxidative DNA damage and the kinetics of removal of DNA damage induced by hydrogen peroxide in peripheral blood lymphocytes of 30 gastric cancer patients and 30 healthy individuals. The metrics from DNA damage and repair study were correlated with the genotypes of common polymorphisms of the hOGG1 and RAD51 genes: a G-->C transversion at 1245 position of the hOGG1 gene producing a Ser-->Cys substitution at the codon 326 (the Ser326Cys polymorphism) and a G-->C substitution at position 135 (5'-untranslated region) of the RAD51 gene (the G135C polymorphism). DNA damage and repair were evaluated by alkaline single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay) assisted by DNA repair enzymes: endonuclease III (Nth) and formamidopyrimidine-DNA glycosylase (Fpg), preferentially recognizing oxidized DNA bases. The genotypes of the polymorphism were determined by restriction fragment length polymorphism PCR. We observed a strong association between gastric cancer occurrence, impaired DNA repair in human lymphocytes and the G/C genotype of the G135C polymorphism of the RAD51 gene. Moreover, there was a strong correlation between that genotype and stomach cancer occurrence in subjects with high level of oxidatively damaged DNA. We did not observe any correlation between the Ser1245Cys polymorphism of the hOGG1 gene and gastric cancer, including subjects with impaired DNA repair and/or high levels of endogenous oxidative DNA lesions. Therefore, our result suggest that the G135C polymorphism of the RAD51 gene may be linked with gastric cancer by the modulation of the cellular response to oxidative stress and this polymorphism may be a useful additional marker in this disease along with the genetic or/and environmental indicators of oxidative stress.

17221831	The G51S purine nucleoside phosphorylase polymorphism is associated with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease patients. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a polygenic and multifactorial complex disease, whose etiopathology is still unclear, however several genetic factors have shown to increase the risk of developing the disease. Purine nucleotides and nucleosides play an important role in the brain. Besides their role in neurotransmission and neuromodulation, they are involved in trophic factor release, apoptosis, and inflammatory responses. These mediators may also have a pivotal role in the control of neurodegenerative processes associated with AD. In this report the distribution of the exonic G/A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) gene, resulting in the amino acid substitution serine to glycine at position 51 (G51S), was investigated in a large population of AD patients (n=321) and non-demented control (n=208). The PNP polymorphism distribution was not different between patients and controls. The polymorphism distribution was also analyzed in AD patients stratified according to differential progressive rate of cognitive decline during a 2-year follow-up. An increased representation of the PNP AA genotype was observed in AD patients with fast cognitive deterioration in comparison with that from patients with slow deterioration rate. Our findings suggest that the G51S PNP polymorphism is associated with a faster rate of cognitive decline in AD patients, highlighting the important role of purine metabolism in the progression of this neurodegenerative disorder.

17286451	Retinoblastoma in India : microsatellite analysis and its application in genetic counseling. OBJECTIVES: This study was conducted with two objectives. The first was to estimate the frequency of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the RB1 gene as a mechanism in disease causation in tumors of patients from India. The second objective was to employ RB1 molecular deletion and microsatellite-based linkage analysis as laboratory tools, while counseling families with a history of retinoblastoma (RB). METHODS: DNA was extracted from peripheral blood and tumors of 54 RB patients and their relatives. Eight fluorescent microsatellite markers, both intragenic and flanking the RB1 gene, were used. After PCR amplification, samples were run on an ABI PRISM 310 genetic analyzer for LOH, deletion detection, and haplotype generation. RESULTS: LOH was found in conjunction with tumor formation in 72.9% of RB patients (39/54 patients; p=0.001; 95% CI 0.6028, 0.8417); however, we could not associate various other clinical parameters of RB patients with the presence or absence of RB1 LOH. Seven germline deletions (13% of RB patients) were identified, and the maternal allele was more frequently lost (p=0.01). A disease co-segregating haplotype was detected in two hereditary autosomal dominant cases. CONCLUSION: LOH of the RB1 gene could play an important role in tumor formation. Large deletions involving RB1 were observed, and a disease co-segregating haplotype was used for indirect genetic testing. This is the first report from India where molecular testing has been applied for RB families in conjunction with genetic counseling. In tertiary ophthalmic practice in India, there is an emerging trend towards the application of genetical knowledge in clinical practice.

17327131	Molecular analysis of the CYP2F1 gene: identification of a frequent non-functional allelic variant. The CYP2F1 is a human cytochrome P450 that is selectively expressed in lung tissue and involved in the metabolism of various pneumotoxicants with potential carcinogenic effects. In the present study, we report the first systematic investigation of the genetic polymorphism of this enzyme. We analyzed the nucleotidic sequence of the CYP2F1 gene in DNA samples from 90 French Caucasians consisting in 44 patients with lung cancer and 46 control individuals, using single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of PCR products (PCR-SSCP). We identified 24 novel mutations distributed in the promoter region of the gene, as well as in the coding regions and their flanking intronic sequences. In addition to the wild-type CYP2F1*1 allele, seven allelic variant, CYP2F1*2A, *2B, *3, *4, *5A, *5B and *6, were characterized. The most frequent allelic variant, CYP2F1*2A (25.6%), harbors a combination of 9 mutations, including 2 missense mutations (Asp218Asn and Gln266His) and a 1-bp insertion (c.14_15insC) that creates a premature stop codon in exon 2, probably leading to the synthesis of a severely truncated protein with no catalytic activity. The identification of around 7% of homozygotes for the frameshift mutation in our Caucasian population suggests the existence of an interindividual variation of the CYP2F1 activity and, consequently, the possibility of interindividual differences in the toxic response to some pneumotoxicants and in the susceptibility to certain chemically induced diseases. However, our preliminary results did not show any evidence that the CYP2F1 genetic polymorphism has implications in the pathogenesis of lung cancer.

19234905	Comparison of unilateral pallidotomy and subthalamotomy findings in advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease. A prospective, randomized, double-blind pilot study to compare the results of stereotactic unilateral pallidotomy and subthalamotomy in advanced idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) refractory to medical treatment was designed. Ten consecutive patients (mean age, 58.4 +/- 6.8 years; 7 men, 3 women) with similar characteristics at the duration of disease (mean disease time, 8.4 +/- 3.5 years), disabling motor fluctuations (Hoehn _ Yahr stage 3-5 in off-drug phases) and levodopa-induced dyskinesias were selected. All patients had bilateral symptoms and their levodopa equivalent dosing were analysed. Six patients were operated on in the globus pallidus interna (GPi) and four in the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Clinical evaluation included the use of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Hoehn_Yahr score and Schwab England activities of daily living (ADL) score in 'on'- and 'off'-drug conditions before surgery and 6 months after surgery. There was statistically significant improvement in all contralateral major parkinsonian motor signs in all patients followed for 6 months. Levodopa equivalent daily intake was significantly reduced in the STN group. Changes in UPDRS, Hoehn _ Yahr and Schwab England ADL scores were similar in both groups. Cognitive functions were unchanged in both groups. Complications were observed in two patients: one had a left homonymous hemianopsia after pallidotomy and another one developed left hemiballistic movements 3 days after subthalamotomy which partly improved within 1 month with Valproate 1000 mg/day. The findings of this study suggest that lesions of the unilateral STN and GPi are equally effective treatment for patients with advanced PD refractory to medical treatment.

19365571	Macular corneal dystrophy in a Chinese family related with novel mutations of CHST6. PURPOSE: To identify mutations in the carbohydrate sulfotransferase gene (CHST6) for a Chinese family with macular corneal dystrophy (MCD) and to investigate the histopathological changes in the affected cornea. METHODS: A corneal button of the proband was obtained by penetrating keratoplasty. The half button and ultrathin sections from the other half button were examined with special stains under a light microscope (LM) and an electron microscope (EM) separately. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood of 11 family members, and the coding region of CHST6 was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. The PCR products were analyzed by direct sequencing and restriction enzyme digestion. RESULTS: The positive reaction to colloidal iron stain (extracellular blue accumulations in the stroma) was detected under light microscopy. Transmission electron microscopy revealed the enlargement of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and the presence of intracytoplasmic vacuoles. The compound heterozygous mutations, c.892C>T and c.1072T>C, were identified in exon 3 of CHST6 in three patients. The two transversions resulted in the substitution of a stop codon for glutamine at codon 298 (p.Q298X) and a missense mutation at codon 358, tyrosine to histidine (p.Y358H). The six unaffected family individuals carried alternative heterozygous mutations. These two mutations were not detected in any of the 100 control subjects. CONCLUSIONS: Those novel compound heterozygous mutations were thought to contribute to the loss of CHST6 function, which induced the abnormal metabolism of keratan sulfate (KS) that deposited in the corneal stroma. It could be proved by the observation of a positive stain reaction and the enlarged collagen fibers as well as hyperplastic fibroblasts under microscopes.

19642243	Acute renal failure in patients with AIDS on tenofovir while receiving prolonged vancomycin course for osteomyelitis. Renal failure developed after a prolonged course of vancomycin therapy in 2 patients who were receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate as part of an antiretroviral regimen. Tenofovir has been implicated in the development of Fanconi syndrome and renal insufficiency because of its effects on the proximal renal tubule. Vancomycin nephrotoxicity is infrequent but may result from coadministration with a nephrotoxic agent. Clinicians should be aware that tenofovir may raise the risk of renal failure during prolonged administration of vancomycin.

19672862	Protein kinase C alpha-dependent signaling mediates endometrial cancer cell growth and tumorigenesis. Endometrial cancer is the most common invasive gynecologic malignancy, yet molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways underlying its etiology and pathophysiology remain poorly characterized. We sought to define a functional role for the protein kinase C (PKC) isoform, PKCalpha, in an established cell model of endometrial adenocarcinoma. Ishikawa cells depleted of PKCalpha protein grew slower, formed fewer colonies in anchorage-independent growth assays and exhibited impaired xenograft tumor formation in nude mice. Consistent with impaired growth, PKCalpha knockdown increased levels of the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors p21(Cip1/WAF1) (p21) and p27(Kip1) (p27). Despite the absence of functional phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) protein in Ishikawa cells, PKCalpha knockdown reduced Akt phosphorylation at serine 473 and concomitantly inhibited phosphorylation of the Akt target, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta). PKCalpha knockdown also resulted in decreased basal ERK phosphorylation and attenuated ERK activation following EGF stimulation. p21 and p27 expression was not increased by treatment of Ishikawa cells with ERK and Akt inhibitors, suggesting that PKCalpha regulates CDK expression independently of Akt and ERK. Immunohistochemical analysis of Grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma revealed aberrant PKCalpha expression, with foci of elevated PKCalpha staining, not observed in normal endometrium. These studies demonstrate a critical role for PKCalpha signaling in endometrial tumorigenesis by regulating expression of CDK inhibitors p21 and p27 and activation of Akt and ERK-dependent proliferative pathways. Thus, targeting PKCalpha may provide novel therapeutic options in endometrial tumors.

20046642	Metallothionein induction reduces caspase-3 activity and TNFalpha levels with preservation of cognitive function and intact hippocampal neurons in carmustine-treated rats. Hippocampal integrity is essential for cognitive functions. On the other hand, induction of metallothionein (MT) by ZnSO(4) and its role in neuroprotection has been documented. The present study aimed to explore the effect of MT induction on carmustine (BCNU)-induced hippocampal cognitive dysfunction in rats. A total of 60 male Wistar albino rats were randomly divided into four groups (15/group): The control group injected with single doses of normal saline (i.c.v) followed 24 h later by BCNU solvent (i.v). The second group administered ZnSO(4) (0.1 micromol/10 microl normal saline, i.c.v, once) then BCNU solvent (i.v) after 24 h. Third group received BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.v, once) 24 h after injection with normal saline (i.c.v). Fourth group received a single dose of ZnSO(4) (0.1 micromol/10 microl normal saline, i.c.v) then BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.v, once) after 24 h. The obtained data revealed that BCNU administration resulted in deterioration of learning and short-term memory (STM), as measured by using radial arm water maze, accompanied with decreased hippocampal glutathione reductase (GR) activity and reduced glutathione (GSH) content. Also, BCNU administration increased serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), hippocampal MT and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents as well as caspase-3 activity in addition to histological alterations. ZnSO(4) pretreatment counteracted BCNU-induced inhibition of GR and depletion of GSH and resulted in significant reduction in the levels of MDA and TNFalpha as well as the activity of caspase-3. The histological features were improved in hippocampus of rats treated with ZnSO(4) + BCNU compared to only BCNU-treated animals. In conclusion, MT induction halts BCNU-induced hippocampal toxicity as it prevented GR inhibition and GSH depletion and counteracted the increased levels of TNFalpha, MDA and caspase-3 activity with subsequent preservation of cognition.

20534142	Association of obesity risk SNPs in PCSK1 with insulin sensitivity and proinsulin conversion. BACKGROUND: Prohormone convertase 1 is involved in maturation of peptides. Rare mutations in gene PCSK1, encoding this enzyme, cause childhood obesity and abnormal glucose homeostasis with elevated proinsulin concentrations. Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within this gene, rs6232 and rs6235, are associated with obesity. We studied whether these SNPs influence the prediabetic traits insulin resistance, beta-cell dysfunction, or glucose intolerance. METHODS: We genotyped 1498 German subjects for SNPs rs6232 and rs6235 within PCSK1. The subjects were metabolically characterized by oral glucose tolerance test with glucose, insulin, proinsulin, and C-peptide measurements. A subgroup of 512 subjects underwent a hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp. RESULTS: The minor allele frequencies were 25.8% for SNP rs6235 and 6.0% for rs6232. After adjustment for sex and age, we found no association of SNPs rs6235 and rs6232 with BMI or other weight-related traits (all p >or= 0.07). Both minor alleles, adjusted for sex, age, BMI and insulin sensitivity were associated with elevated AUCproinsulin and AUCproinsulin/AUCinsulin (rs6235: p(additive) model <or= 0.009, effect sizes 8/8%, rs6232: pdominant model <or= 0.01, effect sizes 10/21%). Insulin secretion was not affected by the variants (different secretion parameters, all p >or= 0.08). The minor allele of SNP rs6232 was additionally associated with 15% higher OGTT-derived and 19% higher clamp-derived insulin sensitivity (pdom <or= 0.0047), 4.5% lower HOMAIR (pdom = 0.02) and 3.5% lower 120-min glucose (pdom = 0.0003) independently of BMI and proinsulin conversion. SNP rs6235 was not associated with parameters of glucose metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Like rare mutations in PCSK1, the more common variants tested determine glucose-stimulated proinsulin conversion, but not insulin secretion. In addition, rs6232, encoding the amino acid exchange N221D, influences insulin sensitivity and glucose homeostasis.

28260110	Inhibitory effect of emodin on fatty acid synthase, colon cancer proliferation and apoptosis. Fatty acid synthase (FASN) is a key anabolic enzyme for de novo fatty acid synthesis, which is important in the development of colon carcinoma. The high expression of FASN is considered a promising molecular target for colon cancer therapy. Emodin, a naturally occurring anthraquinone, exhibits an anticancer effect in various types of human cancer, including colon cancer; however, the molecular mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Cell viability was evaluated using a Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. The apoptosis rate of cells was quantified via flow cytometry following Annexin V/propidium iodide staining. FASN activity was measured by monitoring oxidation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate at a wavelength of 340 nm, and intracellular free fatty acid levels were detected using a Free Fatty Acid Quantification kit. Western blot analysis and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction were used to detect target gene and protein expression. The present study was performed to investigate whether the gene expression of FASN and its enzymatic activity are regulated by emodin in a human colon cancer cell line. Emodin markedly inhibited the proliferation of HCT116 cells and a higher protein level of FASN was expressed, compared with that in SW480, SNU-C2A or SNU-C5 cells. Emodin significantly downregulated the protein expression of FASN in HCT116 cells, which was caused by protein degradation due to elevated protein ubiquitination. Emodin also inhibited intracellular FASN enzymatic activity and reduced the levels of intracellular free fatty acids. Emodin enhanced antiproliferation and apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The combined treatment of emodin and cerulenin, a commercial FASN inhibitor, had an additive effect on these activities. Palmitate, the final product of the FASN reaction, rescued emodin-induced viability and apoptosis. In addition, emodin altered FASN-involved signaling pathways, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinases/extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2. These results suggested that emodin-regulated cell growth and apoptosis were mediated by inhibiting FASN and provide a molecular basis for colon cancer therapy.

28747658	A single amino acid substitution confers B-cell clonogenic activity to the HIV-1 matrix protein p17. Recent data highlight the presence, in HIV-1-seropositive patients with lymphoma, of p17 variants (vp17s) endowed with B-cell clonogenicity, suggesting a role of vp17s in lymphomagenesis. We investigated the mechanisms responsible for the functional disparity on B cells between a wild-type p17 (refp17) and a vp17 named S75X. Here, we show that a single Arginine (R) to Glycine (G) mutation at position 76 in the refp17 backbone (p17R76G), as in the S75X variant, is per se sufficient to confer a B-cell clonogenic potential to the viral protein and modulate, through activation of the PTEN/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, different molecules involved in apoptosis inhibition (CASP-9, CASP-7, DFF-45, NPM, YWHAZ, Src, PAX2, MAPK8), cell cycle promotion and cancer progression (CDK1, CDK2, CDK8, CHEK1, CHEK2, GSK-3 beta, NPM, PAK1, PP2C-alpha). Moreover, the only R to G mutation at position 76 was found to strongly impact on protein folding and oligomerization by altering the hydrogen bond network. This generates a conformational shift in the p17 R76G mutant which enables a functional epitope(s), masked in refp17, to elicit B-cell growth-promoting signals after its interaction with a still unknown receptor(s). Our findings offer new opportunities to understand the molecular mechanisms accounting for the B-cell growth-promoting activity of vp17s.

16410744	Genetic alterations in primary glioblastomas in Japan. Current knowledge of genetic alterations in glioblastomas is based largely on genetic analyses of tumors from mainly caucasian patients in the United States and Europe. In the present study, screening for several key genetic alterations was performed on 77 primary (de novo) glioblastomas in Japanese patients. SSCP followed by DNA sequencing revealed TP53 mutations in 16 of 73 (22%) glioblastomas and PTEN mutations in 13 of 63 (21%) cases analyzed. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) showed EGFR amplification in 25 of 77 (32%) cases and p16 homozygous deletion in 32 of 77 (42%) cases. Quantitative microsatellite analysis revealed LOH 10q in 41 of 59 (69%) glioblastomas. The frequencies of these genetic alterations were similar to those reported for primary glioblastomas at the population level in Switzerland. As previously observed for glioblastomas in Europe, there was a positive association between EGFR amplification and p16 deletion (p=0.009), whereas there was an inverse association between TP53 mutations and p16 deletion (p=0.049) in glioblastomas in Japan. Multivariate analyses showed that radiotherapy was significantly predictive for longer survival of glioblastoma patients (p=0.002). SSCP followed by DNA sequencing of the kinase domain (exons 18-21) of the EGFR gene revealed mutations in 2 ou of 69 (3%) glioblastomas in Japan and in 4 of 81 (5%) glioblastomas in Switzerland. The allele frequencies of polymorphisms at codon 787 CAG/CAA (Gln/Gln) in glioblastomas in Japan were G/G (82.4%), G/A (10.8%), A/A (6.8%), corresponding to G 0.878 versus A 0.122, significantly different from those in glioblastomas in Switzerland: G/G (27.2%), G/A (28.4%), A/A (44.4%), corresponding to G 0.414 versus A 0.586 (p < 0.0001). These results suggest that primary glioblastomas in Japan show genetic alterations similar to those in Switzerland, suggesting a similar molecular basis in caucasians and Asians, despite different genetic backgrounds, including different status of a polymorphism in the EGFR gene.

16526029	Evaluation of RGS4 as a candidate gene for schizophrenia. Several studies have suggested that the regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) may be a positional and functional candidate gene for schizophrenia. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) located at the promoter region (SNP4 and SNP7) and the intron 1 (SNP18) of RGS4 have been verified in different ethnic groups. Positive results have been reported in these SNPs with different numbers of SNP combinatory haplotypes. In this study, these three SNP markers were genotyped in 218 schizophrenia pedigrees of Taiwan (864 individuals) for association analysis. Among these three SNPs, neither SNP4, SNP7, SNP18 has shown significant association with schizophrenia in single locus association analysis, nor any compositions of the three SNP haplotypes has shown significantly associations with the DSM-IV diagnosed schizophrenia. Our results fail to support the RGS4 as a candidate gene for schizophrenia when evaluated from these three SNP markers.

17065198	Analysis of skin cancer risk factors in immunosuppressed renal transplant patients shows high levels of UV-specific tandem CC to TT mutations of the p53 gene. Immunosuppressed renal transplant recipients (RTRs) are predisposed to non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSCs), predominantly squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs). We have analyzed skin lesions from RTRs with aggressive tumors for p53 gene modifications, the presence of Human Papillomas Virus (HPV) DNA in relation to the p53 codon 72 genotype and polymorphisms of the XPD repair gene. We detected 24 p53 mutations in 15/25 (60%) NMSCs, 1 deletion and 23 base substitutions, the majority (78%) being UV-specific C to T transitions at bipyrimidine sites. Importantly, 35% (6/17) are tandem mutations, including 4 UV signature CC to TT transitions possibly linked to modulated DNA repair caused by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CsA). We found 8 p53 mutations in 7/17 (41%) precancerous actinic keratosis (AK), suggesting that p53 mutations are early events in RTR skin carcinogenesis. Immunohistochemical analysis shows a good correlation between p53 accumulation and mutations. HPV DNA was detected in 78% of skin lesions (60% Basal Cell Carcinomas, 82%AK and 79% SCCs). Thus, immunosuppression has increased the risk of infections by HPVs, predominantly epidermodysplasia verruciformis, speculated to play a role in skin cancer development. No association is found between HPV status and p53 mutation. Moreover, p53 codon 72 or frequencies of three XPD genotypes of RTRs are comparable with control populations. The p53 mutation spectrum, presenting a high level of CC to TT mutations, shows that the UV component of sunlight is the major risk factor and modulated DNA repair by immunosuppressive drug treatment may be significant in the skin carcinogenesis of RTRs.

17344330	Syncope and QT prolongation among patients treated with methadone for heroin dependence in the city of Copenhagen. BACKGROUND: Methadone is prescribed to heroin addicts to decrease illicit opioid use. Prolongation of the QT interval in the ECG of patients with torsade de pointes (TdP) has been reported in methadone users. As heroin addicts sometimes faint while using illicit drugs, doctors might attribute too many episodes of syncope to illicit drug use and thereby underestimate the incidence of TdP in this special population, and the high mortality in this population may, in part, be caused by the proarrhythmic effect of methadone. METHODS: In this cross-sectional study interview, ECGs and blood samples were collected in a population of adult heroin addicts treated with methadone or buprenorphine on a daily basis. Of the patients at the Drug Addiction Service in the municipal of Copenhagen, 450 (approximately 52%) were included. The QT interval was estimated from 12 lead ECGs. All participants were interviewed about any experience of syncope. The association between opioid dose and QT, and methadone dose and reporting of syncope was assessed using multivariate linear regression and logistic regression, respectively. RESULTS: Methadone dose was associated with longer QT interval of 0.140 ms/mg (p = 0.002). No association between buprenorphine and QTc was found. Among the subjects treated with methadone, 28% men and 32% women had prolonged QTc interval. None of the subjects treated with buprenorphine had QTc interval >0.440 s((1/2)). A 50 mg higher methadone dose was associated with a 1.2 (95% CI 1.1 to 1.4) times higher odds for syncope. CONCLUSIONS: Methadone is associated with QT prolongation and higher reporting of syncope in a population of heroin addicts.

18945288	R58fs mutation in the HGD gene in a family with alkaptonuria in the UAE. This study was conducted to determine the prevalence of alkaptonuria in the UAE population and to identify the genotype of affected individuals. In a 3 stage sampling technique 2981 pupils from Government schools in Al Ain and private schools in Dubai were selected to take part in the study, of whom 2857 provided urine samples. Urine collected was analysed for homogentisic acid by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Genomic DNA was isolated from the white blood cells of all family members of the affected case following standard established protocols. Specific PRC primers were designed to amplify all 14 exons of the HGD gene with the flanking intronic sequences including the splice site sequences. 2857 children returned a viable urine sample, of which one was highly positive for homogentisic acid. All 12 members of this girl's family were studied and one, a 22 year old brother, was found to excrete HGA. Another, a sister who had not provided a urine sample, was discovered by genetic testing. There were no complaints of joint pain or other symptoms in any member of this family. Parents were first cousins. We found a single nucleotide deletion c.342delA, located in exon 3, which resulted in a frameshift at amino acid position 58 (p.Arg58fs or p.R58fs). Alkaptonuria may be more common than it is thought to be with an allele prevalence estimated at 0.0107 (95% CI 0.000392-0.03473). The R58fs mutation is old, perhaps having occurred several thousand years ago, and has spread over a large geographical area.

19306381	Neuregulin-1 beta and neuregulin-1 alpha differentially affect the migration and invasion of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor cells. Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are the most common malignancy associated with neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1). These Schwann cell lineage-derived sarcomas aggressively invade adjacent nerve and soft tissue, frequently precluding surgical resection. Little is known regarding the mechanisms underlying this invasive behavior. We have shown that MPNSTs express neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) beta isoforms, which promote Schwann cell migration during development, and NRG-1 alpha isoforms, whose effects on Schwann cells are poorly understood. Hypothesizing that NRG-1 beta and/or NRG-1 alpha promote MPNST invasion, we found that NRG-1 beta promoted MPNST migration in a substrate-specific manner, markedly enhancing migration on laminin but not on collagen type I or fibronectin. The NRG-1 receptors erbB3 and erbB4 were present in MPNST invadopodia (processes mediating invasion), partially colocalized with focal adhesion kinase and the laminin receptor beta(1)-integrin and coimmunoprecipitated with beta(1)-integrin. NRG-1 beta stimulated human and murine MPNST cell migration and invasion in a concentration-dependent manner in three-dimensional migration assays, acting as a chemotactic factor. Both baseline and NRG-1 beta-induced migration were erbB-dependent and required the action of MEK 1/2, SAPK/JNK, PI-3 kinase, Src family kinases and ROCK-I/II. In contrast, NRG-1 alpha had no effect on the migration and invasion of some MPNST lines and inhibited the migration of others. While NRG-1 beta potently and persistently activated Erk 1/2, SAPK/JNK, Akt and Src family kinases, NRG-1 alpha did not activate Akt and activated these other kinases with kinetics distinct from those evident in NRG-1 beta-stimulated cells. These findings suggest that NRG-1 beta enhances MPNST migration and that NRG-1 beta and NRG-1 alpha differentially modulate this process.

22048266	Exploratory investigation on functional significance of ETS2 and SIM2 genes in Down syndrome. Trisomy of the 21{st} chromosome leads to an over dosage of several regulatory genes in Down syndrome (DS). Though allelic and genotypic combinations formed between genes are interesting, till date, this particular area has never been explored in DS. In the present investigation four SNPs in two transcription factors, Single minded 2 (SIM2) and V-ets erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog2 (ETS2), located in the 21{st} chromosome were genotyped to understand their role in DS. Genomic DNA of eastern Indian probands with DS (N=132), their parents (N=209) and ethnically matched controls (N=149) was subjected to PCR-based analyses of functionally important SNPs followed by statistical analyses. ETS2 rs461155 showed high heterozygosity in DS. Significantly lower frequency of SIM2 C-G haplotype (rs2073601-rs2073416) was noticed in individuals with DS (P value =0.01669) and their fathers (P value=0.01185). Significantly lower frequency of the A-C-C-G with higher frequency of A-C-A-G haplotypes was also noticed in subjects with DS (P value =0.02089 and 0.00588 respectively). Data obtained indicate that the rs2073601 'A' allele, responsible for nonsynonymous substitution of leucine to methionine, may have some role in DS in this population.

24853300	Crucial role of calbindin-D28k in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease mouse model. Calbindin-D28k (CB), one of the major calcium-binding and buffering proteins, has a critical role in preventing a neuronal death as well as maintaining calcium homeostasis. Although marked reductions of CB expression have been observed in the brains of mice and humans with Alzheimer disease (AD), it is unknown whether these changes contribute to AD-related dysfunction. To determine the pathogenic importance of CB depletions in AD models, we crossed 5 familial AD mutations (5XFAD; Tg) mice with CB knock-out (CBKO) mice and generated a novel line CBKO.5XFAD (CBKOTg) mice. We first identified the change of signaling pathways and differentially expressed proteins globally by removing CB in Tg mice using mass spectrometry and antibody microarray. Immunohistochemistry showed that CBKOTg mice had significant neuronal loss in the subiculum area without changing the magnitude (number) of amyloid b-peptide (Ab) plaques deposition and elicited significant apoptotic features and mitochondrial dysfunction compared with Tg mice. Moreover, CBKOTg mice reduced levels of phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) 1/2 and cAMP response element-binding protein at Ser-133 and synaptic molecules such as N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 (NMDA receptor 1), NMDA receptor 2A, PSD-95 and synaptophysin in the subiculum compared with Tg mice. Importantly, this is the first experimental evidence that removal of CB from amyloid precursor protein/presenilin transgenic mice aggravates AD pathogenesis, suggesting that CB has a critical role in AD pathogenesis.

26102294	Role of stress-activated OCT4A in the cell fate decisions of embryonal carcinoma cells treated with etoposide. Tumor cellular senescence induced by genotoxic treatments has recently been found to be paradoxically linked to the induction of "stemness." This observation is critical as it directly impinges upon the response of tumors to current chemo-radio-therapy treatment regimens. Previously, we showed that following etoposide (ETO) treatment embryonal carcinoma PA-1 cells undergo a p53-dependent upregulation of OCT4A and p21Cip1 (governing self-renewal and regulating cell cycle inhibition and senescence, respectively). Here we report further detail on the relationship between these and other critical cell-fate regulators. PA-1 cells treated with ETO display highly heterogeneous increases in OCT4A and p21Cip1 indicative of dis-adaptation catastrophe. Silencing OCT4A suppresses p21Cip1, changes cell cycle regulation and subsequently suppresses terminal senescence; p21Cip1-silencing did not affect OCT4A expression or cellular phenotype. SOX2 and NANOG expression did not change following ETO treatment suggesting a dissociation of OCT4A from its pluripotency function. Instead, ETO-induced OCT4A was concomitant with activation of AMPK, a key component of metabolic stress and autophagy regulation. p16ink4a, the inducer of terminal senescence, underwent autophagic sequestration in the cytoplasm of ETO-treated cells, allowing alternative cell fates. Accordingly, failure of autophagy was accompanied by an accumulation of p16ink4a, nuclear disintegration, and loss of cell recovery. Together, these findings imply that OCT4A induction following DNA damage in PA-1 cells, performs a cell stress, rather than self-renewal, function by moderating the expression of p21Cip1, which alongside AMPK helps to then regulate autophagy. Moreover, this data indicates that exhaustion of autophagy, through persistent DNA damage, is the cause of terminal cellular senescence.

26411452	Putative Prostate Cancer Risk SNP in an Androgen Receptor-Binding Site of the Melanophilin Gene Illustrates Enrichment of Risk SNPs in Androgen Receptor Target Sites. Genome-wide association studies have identified genomic loci, whose single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) predispose to prostate cancer (PCa). However, the mechanisms of most of these variants are largely unknown. We integrated chromatin-immunoprecipitation-coupled sequencing and microarray expression profiling in TMPRSS2-ERG gene rearrangement positive DUCaP cells with the GWAS PCa risk SNPs catalog to identify disease susceptibility SNPs localized within functional androgen receptor-binding sites (ARBSs). Among the 48 GWAS index risk SNPs and 3,917 linked SNPs, 80 were found located in ARBSs. Of these, rs11891426:T>G in an intron of the melanophilin gene (MLPH) was within a novel putative auxiliary AR-binding motif, which is enriched in the neighborhood of canonical androgen-responsive elements. T>G exchange attenuated the transcriptional activity of the ARBS in an AR reporter gene assay. The expression of MLPH in primary prostate tumors was significantly lower in those with the G compared with the T allele and correlated significantly with AR protein. Higher melanophilin level in prostate tissue of patients with a favorable PCa risk profile points out a tumor-suppressive effect. These results unravel a hidden link between AR and a functional putative PCa risk SNP, whose allele alteration affects androgen regulation of its host gene MLPH.

27941998	Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 1(VDAC1) Participates the Apoptosis of the Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Desminopathy. Desminopathies caused by the mutation in the gene coding for desmin are genetically protein aggregation myopathies. Mitochondrial dysfunction is one of pathological changes in the desminopathies at the earliest stage. The molecular mechanisms of mitochondria dysfunction in desminopathies remain exclusive. VDAC1 regulates mitochondrial uptake across the outer membrane and mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP). Relationships between desminopathies and Voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) remain unclear. Here we successfully constructed the desminopathy rat model, evaluated with conventional stains, containing hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Gomori Trichrome (MGT), (PAS), red oil (ORO), NADH-TR, SDH staining and immunohistochemistry. Immunofluorescence results showed that VDAC1 was accumulated in the desmin highly stained area of muscle fibers of desminopathy patients or desminopathy rat model compared to the normal ones. Meanwhile apoptosis related proteins bax and ATF2 were involved in desminopathy patients and desminopathy rat model, but not bcl-2, bcl-xl or HK2.VDAC1 and desmin are closely relevant in the tissue splices of deminopathies patients and rats with desminopathy at protein lever. Moreover, apoptotic proteins are also involved in the desminopathies, like bax, ATF2, but not bcl-2, bcl-xl or HK2. This pathological analysis presents the correlation between VDAC1 and desmin, and apoptosis related proteins are correlated in the desminopathy. Furthermore, we provide a rat model of desminopathy for the investigation of desmin related myopathy.

30836660	Salidroside Ameliorates Renal Interstitial Fibrosis by Inhibiting the TLR4/NF-kappaB and MAPK Signaling Pathways. Salidroside (Sal) is an active ingredient that is isolated from Rhodiola rosea, which has been reported to have anti-inflammatory activities and a renal protective effect. However, the role of Sal on renal fibrosis has not yet been elucidated. Here, the purpose of the current study is to test the protective effects of Sal against renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF), and to explore the underlying mechanisms using both in vivo and in vitro models. In this study, we establish the unilateral ureteric obstruction (UUO) or folic acid (FA)-induced mice renal interstitial fibrosis in vivo and the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1-stimulated human proximal tubular epithelial cell (HK-2) model in vitro. The levels of kidney functional parameters and inflammatory cytokines in serum are examined. The degree of renal damage and fibrosis is determined by histological assessment. Immunohistochemistry and western blotting are used to determine the mechanisms of Sal against RIF. Our results show that treatment with Sal can ameliorate tubular injury and deposition of the extracellular matrix (ECM) components (including collagen SH and collagen I). Furthermore, Sal administration significantly suppresses epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), as evidenced by a decreased expression of alpha-SMA, vimentin, TGF-beta1, snail, slug, and a largely restored expression of E-cadherin. Additionally, Sal also reduces the levels of serum biochemical markers (serum creatinine, Scr; blood urea nitrogen, BUN; and uric acid, UA) and decreases the release of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha). Further study revealed that the effect of Sal on renal interstitial fibrosis is associated with the lower expression of TLR4, p-IkappaBalpha, p-NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), both in vivo and in vitro. In conclusion, Sal treatment improves kidney function, ameliorates the deposition of the ECM components and relieves the protein levels of EMT markers in mouse kidneys and HK-2 cells. Furthermore, Sal treatment significantly decreases the release of inflammatory cytokines and inhibits the TLR4/NF-kappaB and MAPK signaling pathways. Collectively, these results suggest that the administration of Sal could be a novel therapeutic strategy in treating renal fibrosis.

15749661	Two novel mutations, L490R and V561X, of the transferrin receptor 2 gene in Japanese patients with hemochromatosis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The low prevalence of the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene in Japan means that the genetic background of hemochromatosis in Japanese patients remains unclear. In a previous report, we showed that 3 patients from one family had an AVAQ 594-597 deletion of the transferrin receptor (TfR2) gene. This suggests that the TfR2 gene is involved in hemochromatosis in Japanese patients. DESIGN AND METHODS: Nine patients clinically diagnosed with hemochromatosis were included in the study. DNA was extracted from whole blood samples collected with informed consent. The HFE and TfR2 genes were analyzed by sequencing the coding region and splicing sites. RESULTS: There were no mutations in the HFE gene. In the TfR2 gene, 2 novel mutations, 1469T->G (L490R) and 1665delC (V561X), were found in 2 patients. A known variation, 714C-> (I238M), was also found in the patient with L490R. The patient homozygous for both L490R and I238M presented with a mild manifestation of hemochromatosis at the age of 41 years. His liver was cirrhotic with parenchymal iron deposits and the result of a glucose tolerance test was compatible with diabetes mellitus. The patient homozygous for V561X had severe iron overload with the triad of cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus and skin pigmentation at the age of 58 years. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Taken together with the previous report, 5 of our 12 patients with hemochromatosis manifesting in middle age had mutations in the TfR2 gene. Thus, TfR2 plays a role in the pathogenesis of hemochromatosis in Japan.

15893386	Succinylcholine-induced masseter muscle rigidity during bronchoscopic removal of a tracheal foreign body. Masseter muscle rigidity during general anesthesia is considered an early warning sign of a possible episode of malignant hyperthermia. The decision whether to continue or discontinue the procedure depends on the urgency of the surgery and severity of masseter muscle rigidity. Here, we describe a case of severe masseter muscle rigidity (jaw of steel) after succinylcholine (Sch) administration during general anesthetic management for rigid bronchoscopic removal of a tracheal foreign body. Anesthesia was continued uneventfully with propofol infusion while all facilities were available to detect and treat malignant hyperthermia.

17877751	Identities, frequencies and origins of TMC1 mutations causing DFNB7/B11 deafness in Pakistan. Non-syndromic deafness is genetically heterogeneous. We previously reported that mutations of transmembrane channel-like gene 1 (TMC1) cause non-syndromic recessive deafness at the DFNB7/B11 locus on chromosome 9q13-q21 in nine Pakistani families. The goal of this study was to define the identities, origins and frequencies of TMC1 mutations in an expanded cohort of 557 large Pakistani families segregating recessive deafness. We screened affected family members for homozygosity at short-tandem repeats flanking known autosomal recessive (DFNB) deafness loci, followed by TMC1 sequence analysis in families segregating deafness linked to DFNB7/B11. We identified 10 new families segregating DFNB7/B11 deafness and TMC1 mutations, including three novel alleles. Overall, 9 different TMC1 mutations account for deafness in 19 (3.4%) of the 557 Pakistani families. A single mutation, p.R34X, causes deafness in 10 (1.8%) of the families. Genotype analysis of p.R34X-linked markers indicates that it arose from a common founder. We also detected p.R34X among normal control samples of African-American and northern European origins, raising the possibility that p.R34X and other mutations of TMC1 are prevalent contributors to the genetic load of deafness across a variety of populations and continents.

18410548	Aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) gene mutation analysis in children and adolescents with sporadic pituitary adenomas. OBJECTIVE: Pituitary adenomas occur rarely in childhood and adolescence. Pituitary adenoma predisposition (PAP) has been recently associated with germline mutations in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) gene. The aim of the study was to examine the proportion of germline AIP mutations in apparently sporadic paediatric pituitary adenomas. DESIGN: Genomic DNA was analysed for mutations in the AIP gene, by PCR amplification and direct sequencing. PATIENTS: A population-based cohort consisting of 36 apparently sporadic paediatric pituitary adenoma patients, referred to two medical centres in Italy, was included in the study. Patients were either less than 18 years at diagnosis, or showed clinical evidence of adenoma development before the age of 18 years. RESULTS: A heterozygous in-frame deletion Y248del (c.742_744delTAC) was identified in one GH-secreting adenoma patient. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analysis of tumour DNA revealed the loss of the wild-type allele. First degree relatives carrying the mutation were clinically unaffected. CONCLUSIONS: While mutations were absent in non-GH-secreting adenoma patients, germline AIP mutations can be found in children and adolescents with GH-secreting tumours, even in the absence of family history. The present study reports the AIP mutation analysis results on patients of a single ethnic origin. Clearly, further studies are needed to improve our knowledge on the role of AIP in paediatric pituitary adenomas.

18593936	Curcumin decreases specificity protein expression in bladder cancer cells. Curcumin is the active component of tumeric, and this polyphenolic compound has been extensively investigated as an anticancer drug that modulates multiple pathways and genes. In this study, 10 to 25 micromol/L curcumin inhibited 253JB-V and KU7 bladder cancer cell growth, and this was accompanied by induction of apoptosis and decreased expression of the proapoptotic protein survivin and the angiogenic proteins vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor 1 (VEGFR1). Because expression of survivin, VEGF, and VEGFR1 are dependent on specificity protein (Sp) transcription factors, we also investigated the effects of curcumin on Sp protein expression as an underlying mechanism for the apoptotic and antiangiogenic activity of this compound. The results show that curcumin induced proteasome-dependent down-regulation of Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4 in 253JB-V and KU7 cells. Moreover, using RNA interference with small inhibitory RNAs for Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4, we observed that curcumin-dependent inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-dependent genes, such as bcl-2, survivin, and cyclin D1, was also due, in part, to loss of Sp proteins. Curcumin also decreased bladder tumor growth in athymic nude mice bearing KU7 cells as xenografts and this was accompanied by decreased Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4 protein levels in tumors. These results show for the first time that one of the underlying mechanisms of action of curcumin as a cancer chemotherapeutic agent is due, in part, to decreased expression of Sp transcription factors in bladder cancer cells.

19825989	H3 histamine receptor-mediated activation of protein kinase Calpha inhibits the growth of cholangiocarcinoma in vitro and in vivo. Histamine regulates functions via four receptors (HRH1, HRH2, HRH3, and HRH4). The d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3))/Ca(2+)/protein kinase C (PKC)/mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway regulates cholangiocarcinoma growth. We evaluated the role of HRH3 in the regulation of cholangiocarcinoma growth. Expression of HRH3 in intrahepatic and extrahepatic cell lines, normal cholangiocytes, and human tissue arrays was measured. In Mz-ChA-1 cells stimulated with (R)-(alpha)-(-)-methylhistamine dihydrobromide (RAMH), we measured (a) cell growth, (b) IP(3) and cyclic AMP levels, and (c) phosphorylation of PKC and mitogen-activated protein kinase isoforms. Localization of PKCalpha was visualized by immunofluorescence in cell smears and immunoblotting for PKCalpha in cytosol and membrane fractions. Following knockdown of PKCalpha, Mz-ChA-1 cells were stimulated with RAMH before evaluating cell growth and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-1/2 phosphorylation. In vivo experiments were done in BALB/c nude mice. Mice were treated with saline or RAMH for 44 days and tumor volume was measured. Tumors were excised and evaluated for proliferation, apoptosis, and expression of PKCalpha, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A, VEGF-C, VEGF receptor 2, and VEGF receptor 3. HRH3 expression was found in all cells. RAMH inhibited the growth of cholangiocarcinoma cells. RAMH increased IP(3) levels and PKCalpha phosphorylation and decreased ERK1/2 phosphorylation. RAMH induced a shift in the localization of PKCalpha expression from the cytosolic domain into the membrane region of Mz-ChA-1 cells. Silencing of PKCalpha prevented RAMH inhibition of Mz-ChA-1 cell growth and ablated RAMH effects on ERK1/2 phosphorylation. In vivo, RAMH decreased tumor growth and expression of VEGF and its receptors; PKCalpha expression was increased. RAMH inhibits cholangiocarcinoma growth by PKCalpha-dependent ERK1/2 dephosphorylation. Modulation of PKCalpha by histamine receptors may be important in regulating cholangiocarcinoma growth.

20080916	Promoter insertion/deletion in the IRF5 gene is highly associated with susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus in distinct populations, but exerts a modest effect on gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. OBJECTIVE: We examined the genetic association of the promoter insertion/deletion (indel) in IRF5 gene with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in distinct populations and assessed its role in gene expression. METHODS: Four IRF5 polymorphisms were genotyped in 1488 SLE patients and 1466 controls. Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR using RNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). RESULTS: The promoter indel and rs2070197 had independent genetic effects, which accounted for the association of rs2004640 and rs10954213. Gene expression analysis revealed that rs10954213 exerted the greatest influence on IRF5 transcript levels. CONCLUSION: We corroborated the association of the promoter indel with SLE in 5 different populations and revealed that rs10954213 is the main single-nucleotide polymorphism responsible for altered IRF5 expression in PBMC.

21496008	Screening and cell-based assessment of mutations in the Aristaless-related homeobox (ARX) gene. ARX mutations cause a diverse spectrum of human disorders, ranging from severe brain and genital malformations to non-syndromic intellectual disability (ID). ARX is a transcription factor with multiple domains that include four polyalanine (pA) tracts, the first two of which are frequently expanded by mutations. We progressively screened DNA samples from 613 individuals with ID initially for the most frequent ARX mutations (c.304ins(GCG)(7)'expansion' of pA1 and c.429_452dup 'dup24bp' of pA2). Five hundred samples without pA1 or pA2 mutations had the entire ARX ORF screened by single stranded polymorphism conformation (SSCP) and/or denaturing high pressure liquid chromatography (dHPLC) analysis. Overall, eight families with six mutations in ARX were identified (1.31%): five duplication mutations in pA2 (0.82%) with three new clinical reports of families with the dup24bp and two duplications larger than the dup24bp mutation discovered (dup27bp, dup33bp); and three point mutations (0.6%), including one novel mutation in the homeodomain (c.1074G>T). Four ultraconserved regions distal to ARX (uc466-469) were also screened in a subset of 94 patients, with three unique nucleotide changes identified in two (uc466, uc467). The subcellular localization of full length ARX proteins was assessed for 11 variants. Protein mislocalization increased as a function of pA2 tract length and phenotypic severity, as has been previously suggested for pA1. Similarly, protein mislocalization of the homeodomain mutations also correlated with clinical severity, suggesting an emerging genotype vs cellular phenotype correlation.

24768818	Structural mechanisms determining inhibition of the collagen receptor DDR1 by selective and multi-targeted type II kinase inhibitors. The discoidin domain receptors (DDRs), DDR1 and DDR2, form a unique subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases that are activated by the binding of triple-helical collagen. Excessive signaling by DDR1 and DDR2 has been linked to the progression of various human diseases, including fibrosis, atherosclerosis and cancer. We report the inhibition of these unusual receptor tyrosine kinases by the multi-targeted cancer drugs imatinib and ponatinib, as well as the selective type II inhibitor DDR1-IN-1. Ponatinib is identified as the more potent molecule, which inhibits DDR1 and DDR2 with an IC50 of 9nM. Co-crystal structures of human DDR1 reveal a DFG-out conformation (DFG, Asp-Phe-Gly) of the kinase domain that is stabilized by an unusual salt bridge between the activation loop and aD helix. Differences to Abelson kinase (ABL) are observed in the DDR1 P-loop, where a b-hairpin replaces the cage-like structure of ABL. P-loop residues in DDR1 that confer drug resistance in ABL are therefore accommodated outside the ATP pocket. Whereas imatinib and ponatinib bind potently to both the DDR and ABL kinases, the hydrophobic interactions of the ABL P-loop appear poorly satisfied by DDR1-IN-1 suggesting a structural basis for its DDR1 selectivity. Such inhibitors may have applications in clinical indications of DDR1 and DDR2 overexpression or mutation, including lung cancer.

25986755	Low functional programming of renal AT2R mediates the developmental origin of glomerulosclerosis in adult offspring induced by prenatal caffeine exposure. UNASSIGNED: Our previous study has indicated that prenatal caffeine exposure (PCE) could induce intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) of offspring. Recent research suggested that IUGR is a risk factor for glomerulosclerosis. However, whether PCE could induce glomerulosclerosis and its underlying mechanisms remain unknown. This study aimed to demonstrate the induction to glomerulosclerosis in adult offspring by PCE and its intrauterine programming mechanisms. A rat model of IUGR was established by PCE, male fetuses and adult offspring at the age of postnatal week 24 were euthanized. The results revealed that the adult offspring kidneys in the PCE group exhibited glomerulosclerosis as well as interstitial fibrosis, accompanied by elevated levels of serum creatinine and urine protein. Renal angiotensin II receptor type 2 (AT2R) gene expression in adult offspring was reduced by PCE, whereas the renal angiotensin II receptor type 1a (AT1aR)/AT2R expression ratio was increased. The fetal kidneys in the PCE group displayed an enlarged Bowman's space and a shrunken glomerular tuft, accompanied by a reduced cortex width and an increase in the nephrogenic zone/cortical zone ratio. Observation by electronic microscope revealed structural damage of podocytes; the reduced expression level of podocyte marker genes, nephrin and podocin, was also detected by q-PCR. Moreover, AT2R gene and protein expressions in fetal kidneys were inhibited by PCE, associated with the repression of the gene expression of glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)/tyrosine kinase receptor (c-Ret) signaling pathway. These results demonstrated that PCE could induce dysplasia of fetal kidneys as well as glomerulosclerosis of adult offspring, and the low functional programming of renal AT2R might mediate the developmental origin of adult glomerulosclerosis.

28368423	Myc enhances B-cell receptor signaling in precancerous B cells and confers resistance to Btk inhibition. Dysregulation of the oncogenic transcription factor MYC induces B-cell transformation and is a driver for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). MYC overexpression in B-NHL is associated with more aggressive phenotypes and poor prognosis. Although genomic studies suggest a link between MYC overexpression and B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling molecules in B-NHL, signaling pathways essential to Myc-mediated B-cell transformation have not been fully elucidated. We utilized intracellular phospho-flow cytometry to investigate the relationship between Myc and BCR signaling in pre-malignant B cells. Utilizing the Eu-myc mouse model, where Myc is overexpressed specifically in B cells, both basal and stimulated BCR signaling were increased in precancerous B lymphocytes from Eu-myc mice compared with wild-type littermates. B cells overexpressing Myc displayed constitutively higher levels of activated CD79a, Btk, Plcg2 and Erk1/2. Notably, Myc-overexpressing B cells maintained elevated BCR signaling despite treatment with ibrutinib, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Furthermore, PI3K/Akt pathway signaling was also increased in Eu-myc B cells, and this increase was partially suppressed with ibrutinib. In addition, experiments with Btk-null B cells revealed off-target effects of ibrutinib on BCR signaling. Our data show that in pre-malignant B cells, Myc overexpression is sufficient to activate BCR and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways and further enhances signaling following BCR ligation. Therefore, our results indicate that precancerous B cells have already acquired enhanced survival and growth capabilities before transformation, and that elevated MYC levels confer resistance to pharmacologic inhibitors of BCR signaling, which has significant implications for B-NHL treatment.

28416580	A TSPO ligand attenuates brain injury after intracerebral hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating disease without effective treatment. After ICH, the immediate infiltration of leukocytes and activation of microglia are accompanied by a rapid up-regulation of the 18-kDa translocator protein (TSPO). TSPO ligands have shown anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties in models of CNS injury. In this study, we determined the impact of a TSPO ligand, etifoxine, on brain injury and inflammation in 2 mouse models of ICH. TSPO was up-regulated in Iba1(+) cells from brains of patients with ICH and in CD11b(+)CD45(int) cells from mice subjected to collagenase-induced ICH. Etifoxine significantly reduced neurodeficits and perihematomal brain edema after ICH induction by injection of either autologous blood or collagenase. In collagenase-induced ICH mice, the protection of etifoxine was associated with reduced leukocyte infiltration into the brain and microglial production of IL-6 and TNF-a. Etifoxine improved blood-brain barrier integrity and diminished cell death. Notably, the protective effect of etifoxine was abolished in mice depleted of microglia by using a colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor inhibitor. These results indicate that the TSPO ligand etifoxine attenuates brain injury and inflammation after ICH. TSPO may be a viable therapeutic target that requires further investigations in ICH.-Li, M., Ren, H., Sheth, K. N., Shi, F.-D., Liu, Q. A TSPO ligand attenuates brain injury after intracerebral hemorrhage.

28687665	Mutation of the a-tubulin Tuba1a leads to straighter microtubules and perturbs neuronal migration. Brain development involves extensive migration of neurons. Microtubules (MTs) are key cellular effectors of neuronal displacement that are assembled from a/b-tubulin heterodimers. Mutation of the a-tubulin isotype TUBA1A is associated with cortical malformations in humans. In this study, we provide detailed in vivo and in vitro analyses of Tuba1a mutants. In mice carrying a Tuba1a missense mutation (S140G), neurons accumulate, and glial cells are dispersed along the rostral migratory stream in postnatal and adult brains. Live imaging of Tuba1a-mutant neurons revealed slowed migration and increased neuronal branching, which correlated with directionality alterations and perturbed nucleus-centrosome (N-C) coupling. Tuba1a mutation led to increased straightness of newly polymerized MTs, and structural modeling data suggest a conformational change in the a/b-tubulin heterodimer. We show that Tuba8, another a-tubulin isotype previously associated with cortical malformations, has altered function compared with Tuba1a. Our work shows that Tuba1a plays an essential, noncompensated role in neuronal saltatory migration in vivo and highlights the importance of MT flexibility in N-C coupling and neuronal-branching regulation during neuronal migration.

29222418	HEB is required for the specification of fetal IL-17-producing gd T cells. IL-17-producing gd T (gdT17) cells are critical components of the innate immune system. However, the gene networks that control their development are unclear. Here we show that HEB (HeLa E-box binding protein, encoded by Tcf12) is required for the generation of a newly defined subset of fetal-derived CD73- gdT17 cells. HEB is required in immature CD24+CD73- gd T cells for the expression of Sox4, Sox13, and Rorc, and these genes are repressed by acute expression of the HEB antagonist Id3. HEB-deficiency also affects mature CD73+ gd T cells, which are defective in RORgt expression and IL-17 production. Additionally, the fetal TCRg chain repertoire is altered, and peripheral Vg4 gd T cells are mostly restricted to the IFNg-producing phenotype in HEB-deficient mice. Therefore, our work identifies HEB-dependent pathways for the development of CD73+ and CD73- gdT17 cells, and provides mechanistic evidence for control of the gdT17 gene network by HEB.

15649253	Primary malignant lymphoma of the brain: frequent abnormalities and inactivation of p14 tumor suppressor gene. Ten primary central nervous system lymphomas (PCNSL, brain lymphomas) were examined for p14 gene exon 1beta deletion, mutation and methylation by Southern blot analysis, nucleotide analysis of polymerase chain reaction clones and Southern blot-based methylation assay. In Southern blot analysis, from the signal densities of the hybridized bands and their similarities to those of exons 2 and 3 in our previous quantitative study, we found that exon 1beta was homozygously deleted in four cases, hemizygously deleted in five cases and not deleted in one case. Thus, the same deletion patterns covered the entire p14 gene for all cases except for one case, which suggested the hemizygous deletion of exons 1beta and 2 and homozygous deletion of exon 3. In addition, although exon 1beta mutation is rare in various tumors, we detected a missense mutation (L50R) in one case with a hemizygous deletion. Methylation of the 5'CpG island of the p14 gene was not suggested for any case without homozygous deletion. Our observation of frequent p14 gene abnormalities (90%) and inactivation (40-60%) was in striking contrast to the same pathological subtype of systemic lymphoma in which p14 gene abnormalities and inactivation were infrequent, suggesting a difference in carcinogenesis between PCNSL and systemic lymphoma.

16321363	Congenital disorder of glycosylation Ic due to a de novo deletion and an hALG-6 mutation. We describe a new cause of congenital disorder of glycosylation-Ic (CDG-Ic) in a young girl with a rather mild CDG phenotype. Her cells accumulated lipid-linked oligosaccharides lacking three glucose residues, and sequencing of the ALG6 gene showed what initially appeared to be a homozygous novel point mutation (338G>A). However, haplotype analysis showed that the patient does not carry any paternal DNA markers extending 33kb in the telomeric direction from the ALG6 region, and microsatellite analysis extended the abnormal region to at least 2.5Mb. We used high-resolution karyotyping to confirm a deletion (10-12Mb) [del(1)(p31.2p32.3)] and found no structural abnormalities in the father, suggesting a de novo event. Our findings extend the causes of CDG to larger DNA deletions and identify the first Japanese CDG-Ic mutation.

16506214	Genetic variation in the COX-2 gene and the association with prostate cancer risk. COX-2 is a key enzyme in the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandins. The prostaglandins produced by COX-2 are involved in inflammation and pain response in different tissues in the body. Accumulating evidence from epidemiologic studies, chemical carcinogen-induced rodent models and clinical trials indicate that COX-2 plays a role in human carcinogenesis and is overexpressed in prostate cancer tissue. We examined whether sequence variants in the COX-2 gene are associated with prostate cancer risk. We analyzed a large population-based case-control study, cancer prostate in Sweden (CAPS) consisting of 1,378 cases and 782 controls. We evaluated 16 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning the entire COX-2 gene in 94 subjects of the control group. Five SNPs had a minor allele frequency of more than 5% in our study population and these were genotyped in all case patients and control subjects and gene-specific haplotypes were constructed. A statistically significant difference in allele frequency between cases and controls was observed for 2 of the SNPs (+3100 T/G and +8365 C/T), with an odds ratio of 0.78 (95% CI=0.64-0.96) and 0.65 (95% CI=0.45-0.94) respectively. In the haplotype analysis, 1 haplotype carrying the variant allele from both +3100 T/G and +8365 C/T, with a population frequency of 3%, was also significantly associated with decreased risk of prostate cancer (p=0.036, global simulated p-value=0.046). This study supports the hypothesis that inflammation is involved in prostate carcinogenesis and that sequence variation within the COX-2 gene influence the risk of prostate cancer.

16801510	Drug-induced long QT syndrome in injection drug users receiving methadone: high frequency in hospitalized patients and risk factors. BACKGROUND: Drug-induced long QT syndrome is a serious adverse drug reaction. Methadone prolongs the QT interval in vitro in a dose-dependent manner. In the inpatient setting, the frequency of QT interval prolongation with methadone treatment, its dose dependence, and the importance of cofactors such as drug-drug interactions remain unknown. METHODS: We performed a systematic, retrospective study comparing active or former intravenous drug users receiving methadone and those not receiving methadone among all patients hospitalized over a 5-year period in a tertiary care hospital. A total of 167 patients receiving methadone fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were compared with a control group of 80 injection drug users not receiving methadone. In addition to methadone dose, 15 demographic, biological, and pharmacological variables were considered as potential risk factors for QT prolongation. RESULTS: Among 167 methadone maintenance patients, the prevalence of QTc prolongation to 0.50 second((1/2)) or longer was 16.2% compared with 0% in 80 control subjects. Six patients (3.6%) in the methadone group presented torsades de pointes. QTc length was weakly but significantly associated with methadone daily dose (Spearman rank correlation coefficient, 0.20; P<.01). Multivariate regression analysis allowed attribution of 31.8% of QTc variability to methadone dose, cytochrome P-450 3A4 drug-drug interactions, hypokalemia, and altered liver function. CONCLUSIONS: QT interval prolongation in methadone maintenance patients hospitalized in a tertiary care center is a frequent finding. Methadone dose, presence of cytochrome P-450 3A4 inhibitors, potassium level, and liver function contribute to QT prolongation. Long QT syndrome can occur with low doses of methadone.

18809400	Alpha-lipoic acid prevents mitochondrial damage and neurotoxicity in experimental chemotherapy neuropathy. The study investigates if alpha-lipoic acid is neuroprotective against chemotherapy induced neurotoxicity, if mitochondrial damage plays a critical role in toxic neurodegenerative cascade, and if neuroprotective effects of alpha-lipoic acid depend on mitochondria protection. We used an in vitro model of chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy that closely mimic the in vivo condition by exposing primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons to paclitaxel and cisplatin, two widely used and highly effective chemotherapeutic drugs. This approach allowed investigating the efficacy of alpha-lipoic acid in preventing axonal damage and apoptosis and the function and ultrastructural morphology of mitochondria after exposure to toxic agents and alpha-lipoic acid. Our results demonstrate that both cisplatin and paclitaxel cause early mitochondrial impairment with loss of membrane potential and induction of autophagic vacuoles in neurons. Alpha-lipoic acid exerts neuroprotective effects against chemotherapy induced neurotoxicity in sensory neurons: it rescues the mitochondrial toxicity and induces the expression of frataxin, an essential mitochondrial protein with anti-oxidant and chaperone properties. In conclusion mitochondrial toxicity is an early common event both in paclitaxel and cisplatin induced neurotoxicity. Alpha-lipoic acid protects sensory neurons through its anti-oxidant and mitochondrial regulatory functions, possibly inducing the expression of frataxin. These findings suggest that alpha-lipoic acid might reduce the risk of developing peripheral nerve toxicity in patients undergoing chemotherapy and encourage further confirmatory clinical trials.

23864035	Bortezomib and dexamethasone as salvage therapy in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma: analysis of long-term clinical outcomes. Bortezomib (bort)-dexamethasone (dex) is an effective therapy for relapsed/refractory (R/R) multiple myeloma (MM). This retrospective study investigated the combination of bort (1.3 mg/m(2) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 every 3 weeks) and dex (20 mg on the day of and the day after bort) as salvage treatment in 85 patients with R/R MM after prior autologous stem cell transplantation or conventional chemotherapy. The median number of prior lines of therapy was 2. Eighty-seven percent of the patients had received immunomodulatory drugs included in some line of therapy before bort-dex. The median number of bort-dex cycles was 6, up to a maximum of 12 cycles. On an intention-to-treat basis, 55 % of the patients achieved at least partial response, including 19 % CR and 35 % achieved at least very good partial response. Median durations of response, time to next therapy and treatment-free interval were 8, 11.2, and 5.1 months, respectively. The most relevant adverse event was peripheral neuropathy, which occurred in 78 % of the patients (grade II, 38 %; grade III, 21 %) and led to treatment discontinuation in 6 %. With a median follow up of 22 months, median time to progression, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 8.9, 8.7, and 22 months, respectively. Prolonged PFS and OS were observed in patients achieving CR and receiving bort-dex a single line of prior therapy. Bort-dex was an effective salvage treatment for MM patients, particularly for those in first relapse.

24842192	Chronic treatment with metformin suppresses toll-like receptor 4 signaling and attenuates left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction. Acute treatment with metformin has a protective effect in myocardial infarction by suppression of inflammatory responses due to activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). In the present study, the effect of chronic pre-treatment with metformin on cardiac dysfunction and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activities following myocardial infarction and their relation with AMPK were assessed. Male Wistar rats were randomly assigned to one of 5 groups (n=6): normal control and groups were injected isoproterenol after chronic pre-treatment with 0, 25, 50, or 100mg/kg of metformin twice daily for 14 days. Isoproterenol (100mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously on the 13th and 14th days to induce acute myocardial infarction. Isoproterenol alone decreased left ventricular systolic pressure and myocardial contractility indexed as LVdp/dtmax and LVdp/dtmin. The left ventricular dysfunction was significantly lower in the groups treated with 25 and 50mg/kg of metformin. Metfromin markedly lowered isoproterenol-induced elevation in the levels of TLR4 mRNA, myeloid differentiation protein 88 (MyD88), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a), and interleukin 6 (IL-6) in the heart tissues. Similar changes were also seen in the serum levels of TNF-a and IL-6. However, the lower doses of 25 and 50mg/kg were more effective than 100mg/kg. Phosphorylated AMPKa (p-AMPK) in the myocardium was significantly elevated by 25mg/kg of metformin, slightly by 50mg/kg, but not by 100mg/kg. Chronic pre-treatment with metformin reduces post-myocardial infarction cardiac dysfunction and suppresses inflammatory responses, possibly through inhibition of TLR4 activities. This mechanism can be considered as a target to protect infarcted myocardium.

27825100	High glucose repatterns human podocyte energy metabolism during differentiation and diabetic nephropathy. Podocytes play a key role in diabetic nephropathy pathogenesis, but alteration of their metabolism remains unknown in human kidney. By using a conditionally differentiating human podocyte cell line, we addressed the functional and molecular changes in podocyte energetics during in vitro development or under high glucose conditions. In 5 mM glucose medium, we observed a stepwise activation of oxidative metabolism during cell differentiation that was characterized by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-g coactivator 1a (PGC-1a)-dependent stimulation of mitochondrial biogenesis and function, with concomitant reduction of the glycolytic enzyme content. Conversely, when podocytes were cultured in high glucose (20 mM), stepwise oxidative phosphorylation biogenesis was aborted, and a glycolytic switch occurred, with consecutive lactic acidosis. Expression of the master regulators of oxidative metabolism transcription factor A mitochondrial, PGC-1a, AMPK, and serine-threonine liver kinase B1 was altered by high glucose, as well as their downstream signaling networks. Focused transcriptomics revealed that myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) and myogenic factor 5 (MYF5) expression was inhibited by high glucose levels, and endoribonuclease-prepared small interfering RNA-mediated combined inhibition of those transcription factors phenocopied the glycolytic shift that was observed in high glucose conditions. Accordingly, a reduced expression of MEF2C, MYF5, and PGC-1a was found in kidney tissue sections that were obtained from patients with diabetic nephropathy. These findings obtained in human samples demonstrate that MEF2C-MYF5-dependent bioenergetic dedifferentiation occurs in podocytes that are confronted with a high-glucose milieu.-Imasawa, T., Obre, E., Bellance, N., Lavie, J., Imasawa, T., Rigothier, C., Delmas, Y., Combe, C., Lacombe, D., Benard, G., Claverol, S., Bonneu, M., Rossignol, R. High glucose repatterns human podocyte energy metabolism during differentiation and diabetic nephropathy.

27860244	Role of protein arginine methyltransferase 5 in inflammation and migration of fibroblast-like synoviocytes in rheumatoid arthritis. To probe the role of protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) in regulating inflammation, cell proliferation, migration and invasion of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). FLSs were separated from synovial tissues (STs) from patients with RA and osteoarthritis (OA). An inhibitor of PRMT5 (EPZ015666) and short interference RNA (siRNA) against PRMT5 were used to inhibit PRMT5 expression. The standard of protein was measured by Western blot or immunofluorescence. The excretion and genetic expression of inflammatory factors were, respectively, estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Migration and invasion in vitro were detected by Boyden chamber assay. FLSs proliferation was detected by BrdU incorporation. Increased PRMT5 was discovered in STs and FLSs from patients with RA. In RA FLSs, the level of PRMT5 was up-regulated by stimulation with IL-1b and TNF-a. Inhibition of PRMT5 by EPZ015666 and siRNA-mediated knockdown reduced IL-6 and IL-8 production, and proliferation of RA FLSs. In addition, inhibition of PRMT5 decreased in vitro migration and invasion of RA FLSs. Furthermore, EPZ015666 restrained the phosphorylation of IkB kinaseb and IkBa, as well as nucleus transsituation of p65 as well as AKT in FLSs. PRMT5 regulated the production of inflammatory factors, cell proliferation, migration and invasion of RA FLS, which was mediated by the NF-kB and AKT pathways. Our data suggested that targeting PRMT5 to prevent synovial inflammation and destruction might be a promising therapy for RA.

28148288	Metalloprotease-disintegrin ADAM12 actively promotes the stem cell-like phenotype in claudin-low breast cancer. BACKGROUND: ADAM12 is upregulated in human breast cancers and is a predictor of chemoresistance in estrogen receptor-negative tumors. ADAM12 is induced during epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, a feature associated with claudin-low breast tumors, which are enriched in cancer stem cell (CSC) markers. It is currently unknown whether ADAM12 plays an active role in promoting the CSC phenotype in breast cancer cells. METHODS: ADAM12 expression was downregulated in representative claudin-low breast cancer cell lines, SUM159PT and Hs578T, using siRNA transfection or inducible shRNA expression. Cell characteristics commonly associated with the CSC phenotype in vitro (cell migration, invasion, anoikis resistance, mammosphere formation, ALDH activity, and expression of the CD44 and CD24 cell surface markers) and in vivo (tumor formation in mice using limiting dilution transplantation assays) were evaluated. RNA sequencing was performed to identify global gene expression changes after ADAM12 knockdown. RESULTS: We found that sorted SUM159PT cell populations with high ADAM12 levels had elevated expression of CSC markers and an increased ability to form mammospheres. ADAM12 knockdown reduced cell migration and invasion, decreased anoikis resistance, and compromised mammosphere formation. ADAM12 knockdown also diminished ALDEFLUOR(+) and CD44(hi)/CD24(-/lo) CSC-enriched populations in vitro and reduced tumorigenesis in mice in vivo. RNA sequencing identified a significant overlap between ADAM12- and Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR)-regulated genes. Consequently, ADAM12 knockdown lowered the basal activation level of EGFR, and this effect was abolished by batimastat, a metalloproteinase inhibitor. Furthermore, incubation of cells with exogenously added EGF prevented the downregulation of CD44(hi)/CD24(-/lo) cell population by ADAM12 knockdown. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that ADAM12 actively supports the CSC phenotype in claudin-low breast cancer cells via modulation of the EGFR pathway.

15064320	Compound heterozygous mutations in the SRD5A2 gene exon 4 in a male pseudohermaphrodite patient of Chinese origin. The goal of this study was to perform 5-alpha-reductase type 2 gene (SRD5A2) analysis in a male pseudohermaphrodite (MPH) patient with normal testosterone (T) production and normal androgen receptor (AR) gene coding sequences. A patient of Chinese origin with ambiguous genitalia at 14 months, a 46,XY karyotype, and normal T secretion under human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) stimulation underwent a gonadectomy at 20 months. Exons 1-8 of the AR gene and exons 1-5 of the SRD5A2 gene were sequenced from peripheral blood DNA. AR gene coding sequences were normal. SRD5A2 gene analysis revealed 2 consecutive mutations in exon 4, each located in a different allele: 1) a T nucleotide deletion, which predicts a frameshift mutation from codon 219, and 2) a missense mutation at codon 227, where the substitution of guanine (CGA) by adenine (CAA) predicts a glutamine replacement of arginine (R227Q). Testes located in the inguinal canal showed a normal morphology for age. The patient was a compound heterozygote for SRD5A2 mutations, carrying 2 mutations in exon 4. The patient showed an R227Q mutation that has been described in an Asian population and MPH patients, along with a novel frameshift mutation, Tdel219. Testis morphology showed that, during early infancy, the 5-alpha-reductase enzyme deficiency may not have affected interstitial or tubular development.

15583840	Tumor associated antigen recognition by autologous serum in patients with breast cancer. Breast cancer accounts for 30-40% of all deaths from cancers in females. In an effort to identify tumor associated antigens that may be useful for immunotherapy, we utilized serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries (SEREX) technique to identify breast cancer-associated antigens. SEREX screening of cDNA expression libraries derived from 3 breast cancer patients identified a total of 88 positive clones (bcg-1 to bcg-88), including 27 hitherto unknown sequences. The cDNA sequences and mRNA expression patterns were characterized. Seroreactivity of the SEREX clones were determined in sera from 75 breast cancer patients, 75 colon cancer patients, and 25 healthy donors. Expression analysis on a cDNA panel from 17 different normal tissues by reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) revealed tissue restricted mRNA expression of 2 of the 27 unknown antigens. Bcg-72 is expressed only in breast, prostate and thymus, while bcg-84 is expressed at moderate levels in testis, spleen and breast. The other 25 unknown antigens were expressed in most other tissues. Serologic assay revealed that 7 out of the 88 clones showed reactivity to at least one serum from either 75 breast or 75 colon cancer patients. These clones did not react with sera from a panel of 25 healthy adult individuals. Our results demonstrate the utility of the SEREX approach for the identification of potential tumor associated antigens in human breast cancer.

15623763	TGFBI gene mutations causing lattice and granular corneal dystrophies in Indian patients. PURPOSE: To identify mutations in the TGFBI gene in Indian patients with lattice corneal dystrophy (LCD) or granular corneal dystrophy (GCD) and to look for genotype-phenotype correlations. METHODS: Thirty-seven unrelated patients were studied, 18 with LCD and 19 with GCD. The diagnosis of LCD or GCD was made on the basis of clinical and/or histopathological evaluation. Exons and flanking intron sequences of the TGFBI gene were amplified by PCR with specific primers. PCR products were screened by the method of single-strand conformation polymorphism followed by sequencing. Mutations were confirmed by screening at least 100 unrelated normal control subjects. RESULTS: Mutations were identified in 14 of 18 patients with LCD and in all 19 patients with GCD. In LCD, three novel heterozygous mutations found were glycine-594-valine (Gly594Val) in 2 of 18 patients, valine-539-aspartic acid (Val539Asp) in 1 patient, and deletion of valine 624, valine 625 (Val624-Val625del) in 1 patient. In addition, mutation of arginine 124-to-cysteine (Arg124Cys) was found in 8 of 18 patients and histidine 626-to-arginine (His626Arg) in 2 of 18 patients. Atypical clinical features for LCD were noted in patients with the Gly594Val and Val624-Val625del mutations. In GCD, 18 patients with GCD type I had a mutation of arginine 555-to-tryptophan (Arg555Trp) and 1 patient with GCD type III (Reis-Bucklers dystrophy), had the Arg124Leu mutation. Seven novel single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were also found, of which a change of leucine 269 to phenylalanine (Leu269Phe) was found in 12 of 18 patients with the Arg555Trp mutation. CONCLUSIONS: Arg124Cys and Arg555Trp appear to be the predominant mutations causing LCD and GCD, respectively, in the population studied. The novel mutations identified in this study are associated with distinct phenotypes.

17033686	A two base pair deletion in the PQBP1 gene is associated with microphthalmia, microcephaly, and mental retardation. X-linked mental retardation has been traditionally divided into syndromic (S-XLMR) and non-syndromic forms (NS-XLMR), although the borderlines between these phenotypes begin to vanish and mutations in a single gene, for example PQBP1, can cause S-XLMR as well as NS-XLMR. Here, we report two maternal cousins with an apparently X-linked phenotype of mental retardation (MR), microphthalmia, choroid coloboma, microcephaly, renal hypoplasia, and spastic paraplegia. By multipoint linkage analysis with markers spanning the entire X-chromosome we mapped the disease locus to a 28-Mb interval between Xp11.4 and Xq12, including the BCOR gene. A missense mutation in BCOR was described in a family with Lenz microphthalmia syndrome, a phenotype showing substantial overlapping features with that described in the two cousins. However, no mutation in the BCOR gene was found in both patients. Subsequent mutation analysis of PQBP1, located within the delineated linkage interval in Xp11.23, revealed a 2-bp deletion, c.461_462delAG, that cosegregated with the disease. Notably, the same mutation is associated with the Hamel cerebropalatocardiac syndrome, another form of S-XLMR. Haplotype analysis suggests a germline mosaicism of the 2-bp deletion in the maternal grandmother of both affected individuals. In summary, our findings demonstrate for the first time that mutations in PQBP1 are associated with an S-XLMR phenotype including microphthalmia, thereby further extending the clinical spectrum of phenotypes associated with PQBP1 mutations.

17639754	Interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin: case series. Warfarin is the most widely used oral anticoagulant and is indicated for many clinical conditions. Levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone, is one of the most commonly prescribed antibiotics in clinical practice and is effective against Gram-positive, Gram-negative, and atypical bacteria. While small prospective studies have not revealed any significant drug-drug interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin, several case reports have indicated that levofloxacin may significantly potentiate the anticoagulation effect of warfarin. We report 3 cases of serious bleeding complications that appear to be the result of the interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin. Physicians should be aware of this potential interaction and use caution when prescribing levofloxacin to patients taking warfarin.

19319147	Rapid reversal of anticoagulation reduces hemorrhage volume in a mouse model of warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage. Warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (W-ICH) is a severe type of stroke. There is no consensus on the optimal treatment for W-ICH. Using a mouse model, we tested whether the rapid reversal of anticoagulation using human prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) can reduce hemorrhagic blood volume. Male CD-1 mice were treated with warfarin (2 mg/kg over 24 h), resulting in a mean (+/-s.d.) International Normalized Ratio of 3.5+/-0.9. First, we showed that an intravenous administration of human PCC rapidly reversed anticoagulation in mice. Second, a stereotactic injection of collagenase was administered to induce hemorrhage in the right striatum. Forty-five minutes later, the animals were randomly treated with PCC (100 U/kg) or saline i.v. (n=12 per group). Twenty-four hours after hemorrhage induction, hemorrhagic blood volume was quantified using a photometric hemoglobin assay. The mean hemorrhagic blood volume was reduced in PCC-treated animals (6.5+/-3.1 microL) compared with saline controls (15.3+/-11.2 microL, P=0.015). In the saline group, 45% of the mice developed large hematomas (i.e., >15 microL). In contrast, such extensive lesions were never found in the PCC group. We provide experimental data suggesting PCC to be an effective acute treatment for W-ICH in terms of reducing hemorrhagic blood volume. Future studies are needed to assess the therapeutic potential emerging from our finding for human W-ICH.

19918264	FGFR4 Gly388Arg polymorphism and prostate cancer risk in Scottish men. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4), a member of the fibroblast growth receptor family, was recently reported to be more abundantly expressed in malignant than benign prostate cells. A single nucleotide polymorphism at position 388 of the FGFR4 amino-acid sequence results in the substitution of glycine (Gly) with arginine (Arg) and higher frequency of the ArgArg genotype was previously found in prostate cancer patients. DNA was extracted from the blood drawn from 399 prostate cancer patients, 150 BPH patients and 294 healthy community controls. Polymerase chain reaction was carried out and single nucleotide polymorphisms of FGFR4 were identified by restriction enzyme digestion. No overall association is detectable between the Arg allele and increased prostate cancer risk. Subgroup analysis shows a higher incidence of the heterozygous ArgGly genotype in cancer cases than in the combined group of BPH and controls (P<0.05); this difference is statistically significant between cancer and BPH patients but not between cancer cases and community controls. The single nucleotide polymorphism Gly(388)Arg in FGFR4 is not associated with increased risk of prostate cancer in Scottish men. This observation is in contrast with results from two previous studies conducted in the USA and Japan.

20335448	A novel point mutation in helix 10 of the human glucocorticoid receptor causes generalized glucocorticoid resistance by disrupting the structure of the ligand-binding domain. CONTEXT: Generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome is a rare familial or sporadic condition characterized by partial insensitivity to glucocorticoids, caused by mutations in the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) gene. Most of the reported cases are adults, demonstrating symptoms associated with mineralocorticoid and/or adrenal androgen excess caused by compensatively increased secretion of the adrenocorticotropic hormone. PATIENT: We identified a new 2-yr-old female case of generalized glucocorticoid resistance syndrome. The patient (TJ) presented with a generalized seizure associated with hypoglycemia and hypokalemia. She also had hypertension and premature pubarche, whereas dexamethasone effectively suppressed these clinical manifestations. RESULTS: The patient's GR gene had a heterozygotic mutation (G-->A) at nucleotide position 2141 (exon 8), which resulted in substitution of arginine by glutamine at amino acid position 714 in the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of the GR alpha. Molecular analysis revealed that the mutant receptor had significantly impaired transactivation activity with a 2-fold reduction in affinity to ligand. It showed attenuated transactivation of the activation function (AF)-2 and reduced binding to a p160 nuclear receptor coactivator. Computer-based structural analysis revealed that replacement of arginine by glutamine at position 714 transmitted a conformational change to the LBD and the AF-2 transactivation surface, resulting in a decreased binding affinity to ligand and to the LXXLL coactivator motif. CONCLUSIONS: Dexamethasone treatment is effective in controlling the premature pubarche, hypoglycemia, hypertension, and hypokalemia in this child case, wherein arginine 714 plays a key role in the proper formation of the ligand-binding pocket and the AF-2 surface of the GR alpha LBD.

21695597	MHC region and risk of systemic lupus erythematosus in African American women. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on chromosome 6p21 is a key contributor to the genetic basis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Although SLE affects African Americans disproportionately compared to European Americans, there has been no comprehensive analysis of the MHC region in relationship to SLE in African Americans. We conducted a screening of the MHC region for 1,536 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and the deletion of the C4A gene in a SLE case-control study (380 cases, 765 age-matched controls) nested within the prospective Black Women's Health Study. We also genotyped 1,509 ancestral informative markers throughout the genome to estimate European ancestry to control for population stratification due to population admixture. The most strongly associated SNP with SLE was the rs9271366 (odds ratio, OR = 1.70, p = 5.6 10(-5)) near the HLA-DRB1 gene. Conditional haplotype analysis revealed three other SNPs, rs204890 (OR = 1.86, p = 1.2 10(-4)), rs2071349 (OR = 1.53, p = 1.0 10(-3)), and rs2844580 (OR = 1.43, p = 1.3 10(-3)), to be associated with SLE independent of the rs9271366 SNP. In univariate analysis, the OR for the C4A deletion was 1.38, p = 0.075, but after simultaneous adjustment for the other four SNPs the odds ratio was 1.01, p = 0.98. A genotype score combining the four newly identified SNPs showed an additive risk according to the number of high-risk alleles (OR = 1.67 per high-risk allele, p < 0.0001). Our strongest signal, the rs9271366 SNP, was also associated with higher risk of SLE in a previous Chinese genome-wide association study (GWAS). In addition, two SNPs found in a GWAS of European ancestry women were confirmed in our study, indicating that African Americans share some genetic risk factors for SLE with European and Chinese subjects. In summary, we found four independent signals in the MHC region associated with risk of SLE in African American women.

21911891	Plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 serum levels and 4G/5G gene polymorphism in morbidly obese Hispanic patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. BACKGROUND: The plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1) has been implicated in the regulation of fibrinolysis and extracellular matrix components. The single base pair guanine insertion/deletion polymorphism (4G/5G) within the promoter region of the PAI-1 gene influences PAI-1 synthesis and may modulate hepatic fibrogenesis. AIM: To evaluate the influence of PAI-1 serum levels and 4G/5G polymorphism on the risk of liver fibrosis associated to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in morbidly obese patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Case-control study of 50 obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery and 71 non-obese subjects matched by age and sex. Anthropometric and biochemical measurements were performed, including PAI-1 serum levels. Genomic DNA was obtained to assess the presence of 4G/5G polymorphism. RESULTS: BMI, insulinemia, triglycerides, HOMA-IR, hypertension and diabetes were significantly higher in obese patients compared to control subjects. PAI-1 serum levels observed in obese patients were significantly lower (10.63 4.82) compared to controls (14.26 11.4; p < 0.05). No differences were observed in the PAI-1 4G/5G promoter genotypes frequencies (p = 0.12). No differences were observed in PAI-1 plasma levels among obese patients with liver fibrosis (10.64 4.35) compared to patients without liver fibrosis (10.61 5.2; p = 0.985). PAI-1 4G/5G promoter genotypes frequencies were similar in patients with or without liver fibrosis associated to NASH (p = 0.6). CONCLUSIONS: Morbidly obese patients had significantly lower PAI-1 serum levels with similar PAI-1 4G/5G genotypes frequencies compared to non-obese subjects. The frequency of 4G/5G genotypes in Chilean Hispanic healthy subjects was similar to that described in other populations. No association was found between PAI-1 serum levels or 4G/5G genotype with liver fibrosis in obese patients.

28468941	Aberrant caveolin-1-mediated Smad signaling and proliferation identified by analysis of adenine 474 deletion mutation (c.474delA) in patient fibroblasts: a new perspective on the mechanism of pulmonary hypertension. A heterozygous caveolin-1 c.474delA mutation has been identified in a family with heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). This frameshift mutation leads to a caveolin-1 protein that contains all known functional domains but has a change in only the final 20 amino acids of the C-terminus. Here we studied how this mutation alters caveolin-1 function, using patient-derived fibroblasts. Transmission electron microscopy showed that fibroblasts carrying the c.474delA mutation form typical caveolae. Expression of mutated caveolin-1 in caveolin-1-null mouse fibroblasts failed to induce formation of caveolae due to retention of the mutated protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. However, coexpression of wild-type caveolin-1 with mutated caveolin-1 restored the ability to form caveolae. Importantly, fibroblasts carrying the mutation showed twofold increase in proliferation rate associated with hyperphosphorylation of Smad1/5/8. This mutation impaired the antiproliferative function of caveolin-1. Inhibition of type I TGFb receptors ALK1/2/3/6 responsible for phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8 reduced the hyperproliferation seen in c.474delA fibroblasts. These results demonstrate the critical role of the final 20 amino acids of caveolin-1 in modulating fibroblast proliferation by dampening Smad signaling and suggest that augmented Smad signaling and fibroblast hyperproliferation are contributing factors in the pathogenesis of PAH in patients with caveolin-1 c.474delA mutation.

15191352	Severe form of thyroid hormone resistance in a patient with homozygous/hemizygous mutation of T3 receptor gene. Resistance to thyroid hormone syndrome (RTH) is a rare disorder, usually inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Patients with RTH are usually euthyroid but can occasionally present with signs and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis or rarely with hypothyroidism. Affected individuals are usually heterozygous for mutations in the thyroid hormone receptor beta gene (TR-beta). We present a patient with RTH found to be homo-/hemizygous for a mutation in the TR-beta gene. The single nucleotide substitution I280S (1123T-->G) was present either on both alleles or in a hemizygous form with complete deletion of the second allele. The I280S mutation was recently reported in a heterozygous patient. The severe phenotype with seriously impaired intellectual development, hyperkinetic behaviour, tachycardia, hearing and visual impairment is probably due to the dominant negative effect of the I280S mutant protein and the absence of any functional TR-beta.

15814629	The number of lymph node metastases in gastric cancer correlates with the angiotensin I-converting enzyme gene insertion/deletion polymorphism. PURPOSE: In the present study, we aimed to substantiate the putative significance of angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) on gastric cancer biology by investigating the influence of its gene polymorphism on gastric cancer progression. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Genomic DNA was purified from peripheral blood mononuclear cells or tissue specimens. Amplified ACE gene fragments were separated on agarose gels. D or I alleles were identified by the presence of 190- or 490-bp fragments, respectively. Local expression of ACE was investigated by immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Twenty-four of 113 (21%) gastric cancer patients had the II, 57 (51%) the ID, and 32 (28%) the DD genotype. The distribution of the ACE genotypes did not differ significantly from the control group of 189 patients without gastric cancer. However, the ACE genotypes correlated with the number of lymph node metastases and the Unio Internationale Contra Cancrum (UICC) tumor stage. Patients with the II genotype had a highly significantly smaller number of lymph node metastases (P < 0.001) and a significantly lower UICC tumor stage (P = 0.01) than patients with the DD genotype. No correlation was found between tumor type, tumor location, local tumor growth, distant metastases, and the ACE genotype. The expression of ACE in gastric cancer was investigated by immunohistochemistry in 100 of 113 patients. ACE was expressed by endothelial cells in all (100%) specimens and by tumor cells in 56 (56%) specimens. CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that ACE is expressed locally in gastric cancer and that the gene polymorphism influences metastatic behavior.

16541406	Distinct patterns of germ-line deletions in MLH1 and MSH2: the implication of Alu repetitive element in the genetic etiology of Lynch syndrome (HNPCC). A relatively high frequency of germ-line genomic rearrangements in MLH1 and MSH2 has been reported among Lynch Syndrome (HNPCC) patients from different ethnic populations. To investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms, we characterized the DNA breakpoints of 11 germ-line deletions, six for MLH1 and five for MSH2. Distinct deletion patterns were found for the two genes. The five cases of MSH2 deletions result exclusively from intragenic unequal recombination mediated by repetitive Alu sequences. In contrast, five out of the six MLH1 deletions are due to recombinations involving sequences of no significant homology (P=0.015). A detailed analysis of the DNA breakpoints in the two genes, previously characterized by other groups, validated the observation that Alu-mediated unequal recombination is the main type of deletion in MSH2 (n=34), but not in MLH1 (n=21) (P<0.0001). Plotting the distribution of known DNA breakpoints among the introns of the two genes showed that, the highest breakpoint density is co-localized with the highest Alu density. Our study suggests that Alu is a promoting factor for the genomic recombinations in both MLH1 and MSH2, and the local Alu density may be involved in shaping the deletion pattern.

17185386	Families with the risk allele of DISC1 reveal a link between schizophrenia and another component of the same molecular pathway, NDE1. We have previously reported a robust association between an allelic haplotype of 'Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1' (DISC1) and schizophrenia in a nationwide collection of Finnish schizophrenia families. This specific DISC1 allele was later identified to associate with visual working memory, selectively in males. DISC1 association to schizophrenia has since been replicated in multiple independent study samples from different populations. In this study, we conditioned our sample of Finnish families for the presence of the Finnish tentative risk allele for DISC1 and re-analyzed our genome-wide scan data of 443 markers on the basis of this stratification. Two additional loci displayed an evidence of linkage (LOD > 3) and included a locus on 16p13, proximal to the gene encoding NDE1, which has been shown to biologically interact with DISC1. Although none of the observed linkages remained significant after multiple test correction through simulation, further analysis of NDE1 revealed an association between a tag-haplotype and schizophrenia (P = 0.00046) specific to females, which proved to be significant (P = 0.011) after multiple test correction. Our finding would support the concept that initial gene findings in multifactorial diseases will assist in the identification of other components of complex genetic etiology. Notably, this and other converging lines of evidence underline the importance of DISC1-related functional pathways in the etiology of schizophrenia.

18779591	Identification of a gain-of-function mutation of the prolactin receptor in women with benign breast tumors. There is currently no known genetic disease linked to prolactin (Prl) or its receptor (PrlR) in humans. Given the essential role of this hormonal system in breast physiology, we reasoned that genetic anomalies of Prl/PrlR genes may be related to the occurrence of breast diseases with high proliferative potential. Multiple fibroadenomas (MFA) are benign breast tumors which appear most frequently in young women, including at puberty, when Prl has well-recognized proliferative actions on the breast. In a prospective study involving 74 MFA patients and 170 control subjects, we identified four patients harboring a heterozygous single nucleotide polymorphism in exon 6 of the PrlR gene, encoding Ile(146)-->Leu substitution in its extracellular domain. This sole substitution was sufficient to confer constitutive activity to the receptor variant (PrlR(I146L)), as assessed in three reconstituted cell models (Ba/F3, HEK293 and MCF-7 cells) by Prl-independent (i) PrlR tyrosine phosphorylation, (ii) activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling, (iii) transcriptional activity toward a Prl-responsive reporter gene, and (iv) cell proliferation and protection from cell death. Constitutive activity of PrlR(I146L) in the breast sample from a patient was supported by increased STAT5 signaling. This is a unique description of a functional mutation of the PrlR associated with a human disease. Hallmarks of constitutive activity were all reversed by a specific PrlR antagonist, which opens potential therapeutic approaches for MFA, or any other disease that could be associated with this mutation in future.

19346865	Reversible inferior colliculus lesion in metronidazole-induced encephalopathy: magnetic resonance findings on diffusion-weighted and fluid attenuated inversion recovery imaging. OBJECTIVE: This is to present reversible inferior colliculus lesions in metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, to focus on the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging. MATERIALS AND METHODS: From November 2005 to September 2007, 8 patients (5 men and 3 women) were diagnosed as having metronidazole-induced encephalopathy (age range; 43-78 years). They had been taking metronidazole (total dosage, 45-120 g; duration, 30 days to 2 months) to treat the infection in various organs. Initial brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were obtained after the hospitalization, including DWI (8/8), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) map (4/8), FLAIR (7/8), and T2-weighted image (8/8). Follow-up MRIs were performed on 5 patients from third to 14th days after discontinuation of metronidazole administration. Findings of initial and follow-up MRIs were retrospectively evaluated by 2 neuroradiologists by consensus, to analyze the presence of abnormal signal intensities, their locations, and signal changes on follow-up images. RESULTS: Initial MRIs showed abnormal high signal intensities on DWI and FLAIR (or T2-weighted image) at the dentate nucleus (8/8), inferior colliculus (6/8), corpus callosum (2/8), pons (2/8), medulla (1/8), and bilateral cerebral white matter (1/8). High-signal intensity lesions on DWI tended to show low signal intensity on ADC map (3/4), but in one patient, high signal intensity was shown at bilateral dentate nuclei on not only DWI but also ADC map. All the lesions in dentate, inferior colliculus, pons, and medullas had been resolved completely on follow-up MRIs in 5 patients, but in 1 patient of them, corpus callosal lesion persisted. CONCLUSIONS: Reversible inferior colliculus lesions could be considered as the characteristic for metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, next to the dentate nucleus involvement.

19889778	Differential impact of immune escape mutations G145R and P120T on the replication of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus e antigen-positive and -negative strains. Immune escape variants of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) represent an emerging clinical challenge, because they can be associated with vaccine escape, HBV reactivation, and failure of diagnostic tests. Recent data suggest a preferential selection of immune escape mutants in distinct peripheral blood leukocyte compartments of infected individuals. We therefore systematically analyzed the functional impact of the most prevalent immune escape variants, the sG145R and sP120T mutants, on the viral replication efficacy and antiviral drug susceptibility of common treatment-associated mutants with resistance to lamivudine (LAM) and/or HBeAg negativity. Replication-competent HBV strains with sG145R or sP120T and LAM resistance (rtM204I or rtL180M/rtM204V) were generated on an HBeAg-positive and an HBeAg-negative background with precore (PC) and basal core promoter (BCP) mutants. The sG145R mutation strongly reduced HBsAg levels and was able to fully restore the impaired replication of LAM-resistant HBV mutants to the levels of wild-type HBV, and PC or BCP mutations further enhanced viral replication. Although the sP120T substitution also impaired HBsAg secretion, it did not enhance the replication of LAM-resistant clones. However, the concomitant occurrence of HBeAg negativity (PC/BCP), sP120T, and LAM resistance resulted in the restoration of replication to levels of wild-type HBV. In all clones with combined immune escape and LAM resistance mutations, the nucleotide analogues adefovir and tenofovir remained effective in suppressing viral replication in vitro. These findings reveal the differential impact of immune escape variants on the replication and drug susceptibility of complex HBV mutants, supporting the need of close surveillance and treatment adjustment in response to the selection of distinct mutational patterns.

20583543	Molecular diagnosis of 46,XY DSD and identification of a novel 8 nucleotide deletion in exon 1 of the SRD5A2 gene. Phenotypic presentation of 46,XY DSD depends on the underlying defects. Defect in androgen action on the target tissues or production of active metabolite share common morphological features. Molecular study may help differentiating these abnormalities with precision. Mutational analysis of androgen receptor (AR) and SRD5A2 genes was performed in 29 patients with 46,XY DSD, by PCR-SSCP. The amplicons that showed an aberrant migration in SSCP were subjected to sequencing. Interestingly, six patients from 4 unrelated families (a pair of sibs, uncle/nephew and other two isolated) were identified with mutations in SRD5A2 gene. In five patients p.R246Q missense mutation was detected, of which four were homozygous and one was compound heterozygous: g.80_87delT CGCGAAG (p.A27fsX132) and p.R246Q. Another patient with isolated micropenis harbored a heterozygous p.G196S missense mutation. No AR gene mutation was detected. In conclusion, our study suggests that p.R246Q mutation is common amongst patients with SRD5A2 gene defect from the Northern states of India. Also, it records a novel deletion in exon 1 of SRD5A2 gene in a patient with severe hypospadias.

20722491	Safety of capecitabine: a review. IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Fluoropyrimidines, in particular 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), have been the mainstay of treatment for several solid tumors, including colorectal, breast and head and neck cancers, for > 40 years. AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This article reviews the pharmacology and efficacy of capecitabine with a special emphasis on its safety. WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The reader will gain better insight into the safety of capecitabine in special populations such as patients with advanced age, renal and kidney disease. We also explore different dosing and schedules of capecitabine administration. TAKE HOME MESSAGE: Capecitabine is an oral prodrug of 5-FU and was developed to fulfill the need for a more convenient therapy and provide an improved safety/efficacy profile. It has shown promising results alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in colorectal, breast, pancreaticobiliary, gastric, renal cell and head and neck cancers. The most commonly reported toxic effects of capecitabine are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, stomatitis and hand-foot syndrome. Capecitabine has a well-established safety profile and can be given safely to patients with advanced age, hepatic and renal dysfunctions.

20828385	Cytostatic and anti-angiogenic effects of temsirolimus in refractory mantle cell lymphoma. Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a rare and aggressive type of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Patients become progressively refractory to conventional chemotherapy, and their prognosis is poor. However, a 38% remission rate has been recently reported in refractory MCL treated with temsirolimus, a mTOR inhibitor.Here we had the opportunity to study a case of refractory MCL who had tumor regression two months after temsirolimus treatment, and a progression-free survival of 10 months. In this case, lymph node biopsies were performed before and six months after temsirolimus therapy. Comparison of the two biopsies showed that temsirolimus inhibited tumor cell proliferation through cell cycle arrest, but did not induce any change in the number of apoptotic tumor cells. Apart from this cytostatic effect, temsirolimus had an antiangiogenic effect with decrease of tumor microvessel density and of VEGF expression. Moreover, numerous patchy, well-limited fibrotic areas, compatible with post-necrotic tissue repair, were found after 6-month temsirolimus therapy. Thus, temsirolimus reduced tumor burden through associated cytostatic and anti-angiogenic effects.This dual effect of temsirolimus on tumor tissue could contribute to its recently reported efficiency in refractory MCL resistant to conventional chemotherapy.

24477591	The -930A>G polymorphism of the CYBA gene is associated with premature coronary artery disease. A case-control study and gene-risk factors interactions. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease (CAD). NADPH oxidases are the main source of ROS in the vasculature. p22phox is a critical component of vascular NADPH oxidases and is encoded by the CYBA (cytochrome b245 alpha) gene. The -930A>G CYBA polymorphism (rs9932581:A>G) modulates the activity of the CYBA promoter, and influences CYBA transcriptional activity. The aim of the present study was to analyze a possible association between the -930A>G polymorphism and CAD and to search for gene-traditional risk factors interactions. 480 subjects were studied: 240 patients with premature CAD, 240 age and sex matched blood donors. The -930A>G polymorphism was genotyped using the TaqMan - Pre-designed SNP Genotyping Assay (Applied Biosystems). The -930G allele carrier state was a risk factor for CAD (OR 2.03, 95% CI 1.21-3.44, P=0.007). A synergistic effect of the -930G allele with overweight/obesity (BMI --25) and cigarette smoking was found. The estimated CAD risk for BMI --25 and the -930G allele interaction was about 160% greater than that predicted by assuming additivity of the effects, and about 40% greater for interaction of cigarette smoking and the -930G allele. Overweight/obesity was a risk factor for CAD only in the -930G allele carriers (P<10(-10)) but not in the AA homozygotes (P=1.00). In conclusion the -930A>G CYBA polymorphism is associated with CAD in the Polish population. The -930G allele carriers are particularly at risk of consequences of obesity and tobacco smoke exposure.

28279980	GLUT4 Is Not Necessary for Overload-Induced Glucose Uptake or Hypertrophic Growth in Mouse Skeletal Muscle. GLUT4 is necessary for acute insulin- and contraction-induced skeletal muscle glucose uptake, but its role in chronic muscle loading (overload)-induced glucose uptake is unknown. Our goal was to determine whether GLUT4 is required for overload-induced glucose uptake. Overload was induced in mouse plantaris muscle by unilateral synergist ablation. After 5 days, muscle weights and ex vivo [(3)H]-2-deoxy-d-glucose uptake were assessed. Overload-induced muscle glucose uptake and hypertrophic growth were not impaired in muscle-specific GLUT4 knockout mice, demonstrating that GLUT4 is not necessary for these processes. To assess which transporters mediate overload-induced glucose uptake, chemical inhibitors were used. The facilitative GLUT inhibitor cytochalasin B, but not the sodium-dependent glucose cotransport inhibitor phloridzin, prevented overload-induced uptake demonstrating that GLUTs mediate this effect. To assess which GLUT, hexose competition experiments were performed. Overload-induced [(3)H]-2-deoxy-d-glucose uptake was not inhibited by d-fructose, demonstrating that the fructose-transporting GLUT2, GLUT5, GLUT8, and GLUT12 do not mediate this effect. To assess additional GLUTs, immunoblots were performed. Overload increased GLUT1, GLUT3, GLUT6, and GLUT10 protein levels twofold to fivefold. Collectively, these results demonstrate that GLUT4 is not necessary for overload-induced muscle glucose uptake or hypertrophic growth and suggest that GLUT1, GLUT3, GLUT6, and/or GLUT10 mediate overload-induced glucose uptake.

28472177	Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal esterase L1 (UCHL1) is associated with stem-like cancer cell functions in pediatric high-grade glioma. Pediatric high-grade gliomas represent 8-12% of all primary tumors of the nervous system in children. Five-year survival for these pediatric aggressive tumors is poor (15-35%) indicating the need to develop better treatments for pediatric high-grade gliomas. In this work we used SF188 and SJ-GBM2 cell lines to study the function of the ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal esterase L1 (UCHL1), a deubiquitinase de-regulated in several cancers, in pediatric high-grade gliomas. UCHL1 depletion in SF188 and SJ-GBM2 glioma cells was associated with decreased cell proliferation and invasion, along with a reduced ability to grow in soft agar and to form spheres (i.e. self-renewal measure). A 70% reduction in Wnt signaling was also observed in the SF188 and SJ-GBM2 UCHL1 knockdowns (KDs) using a TCF-dependent TOPflash reporter assay. Transcriptome comparisons of UCHL1 KDs versus vector control identified a list of 306 differentially expressed genes (at least 2-fold change; p    <0.05) which included genes known to be involved in cancer like ACTA2, POSTN, LIF, FBXL7, FBXW11, GDF15, HEY2, but also potential novel genes such us IGLL5, ABCA4, AQP3, AQP4, CALB1, and ALK. Bioinformatics gene ontology (GO) analysis of these 306 genes revealed significant enrichment in "signal peptides", "extracellular matrix"and "secreted proteins" GO Terms. "Angiogenesis and blood vessel development", "neuron differentiation/development", cell adhesion", and "cell migration" also showed significant enrichment in our GO analysis. Top canonical pathways identified by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) included "Clathrin-mediated Endocytosis Signaling" (p = 5.14x10-4), "Virus Entry via Endocytic Pathways" (p = 6.15x 10-4), and "High Mobility Group-Box 1 (HMGB1) Signaling" (p = 6.15x10-4). While FGF2, IL1B, TNF and PDGFB were predicted as top upstream regulators (p    < 2x10-16) of the UCHL1 KD-associated transcriptome. Aberrant expression of UCHL1 in pediatric high-grade gliomas may promote cell invasion, transformation, and self-renewal properties, at least in part, by modulating Wnt/Beta catenin activity. UCHL1 might act as an oncogene in glioma within the gene network that imparts stem-like characteristics to these cancer cells.

28584052	Mutations in N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase in patients with X-linked intellectual disability. N-Acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT) regulates protein O-GlcNAcylation, an essential and dynamic post-translational modification. The O-GlcNAc modification is present on numerous nuclear and cytosolic proteins and has been implicated in essential cellular functions such as signaling and gene expression. Accordingly, altered levels of protein O-GlcNAcylation have been associated with developmental defects and neurodegeneration. However, mutations in the OGT gene have not yet been functionally confirmed in humans. Here, we report on two hemizygous mutations in OGT in individuals with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) and dysmorphic features: one missense mutation (p.Arg284Pro) and one mutation leading to a splicing defect (c.463-6T>G). Both mutations reside in the tetratricopeptide repeats of OGT that are essential for substrate recognition. We observed slightly reduced levels of OGT protein and reduced levels of its opposing enzyme O-GlcNAcase in both patient-derived fibroblasts, but global O-GlcNAc levels appeared to be unaffected. Our data suggest that mutant cells attempt to maintain global O-GlcNAcylation by down-regulating O-GlcNAcase expression. We also found that the c.463-6T>G mutation leads to aberrant mRNA splicing, but no stable truncated protein was detected in the corresponding patient-derived fibroblasts. Recombinant OGT bearing the p.Arg284Pro mutation was prone to unfolding and exhibited reduced glycosylation activity against a complex array of glycosylation substrates and proteolytic processing of the transcription factor host cell factor 1, which is also encoded by an XLID-associated gene. We conclude that defects in O-GlcNAc homeostasis and host cell factor 1 proteolysis may play roles in mediation of XLID in individuals with OGT mutations.

15523499	Haplotype structure of the beta adrenergic receptor genes in US Caucasians and African Americans. The beta-adrenergic receptors (beta-AR) are G protein-coupled receptors activated by epinephrine and norepinephrine and are involved in a variety of their physiological functions. Previously, three beta-AR genes (ADRB1, ADRB2 and ADRB3) were resequenced, identifying polymorphisms that were used in genetic association studies of cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. These studies have produced intriguing but inconsistent results, potentially because the known functional variants: ADRB1 Arg389Gly and Gly49Ser, ADRB2 Arg16Gly and Gln27Glu, and ADRB3 Arg64Trp provided an incomplete picture of the total functional diversity at these genes. Therefore, we created marker panels for each beta-AR gene that included the known functional markers and also other markers evenly spaced and with sufficient density to identify haplotype block structure and to maximize haplotype diversity. A total of 27 markers were genotyped in 96 US Caucasians and 96 African Americans. In both populations and for each gene, a single block with little evidence of historical recombination was observed. For each gene, haplotype captured most of the information content of each functional locus, even if that locus was not genotyped, and presumably haplotype would capture the signal from unknown functional loci whose alleles are of moderate abundance. This study demonstrates the utility of using beta-AR gene haplotype maps and marker panels as tools for linkage studies on beta-AR function.

15770495	New mutations, hotspots, and founder effects in Brazilian patients with steroid 5alpha-reductase deficiency type 2. Mutations of the steroid 5alpha-reductase type 2 (SRD5A2) gene in 46,XY subjects cause masculinization defects of varying degrees, due to reduced or impaired enzymatic activity. In this study, sequence abnormalities of the SRD5A2 gene were assessed by polymerase chain reaction with specific primers and automated sequencing analysis in DNA samples from 20 patients with suspected steroid 5alpha-reductase type 2 deficiency from 18 Brazilian families. Eleven subjects presented SRD5A2 homozygous single-base mutations (two first cousins and four unrelated patients with G183S, two with R246W, one with del642T, one with G196S, and one with 217_218insC plus the A49T variant in heterozygosis), whereas four were compound heterozygotes (one with Q126R/IVS3+1G>A, one with Q126R/del418T, and two brothers with Q126R/G158R). Three patients were heterozygous for A207D, G196S, and R266W substitutions. The V89L polymorphism was found in heterozygosis in one of them (with A207D) and in one case with an otherwise normal gene sequence. The A49T variant was also detected in heterozygosis in the second case without other sequencing abnormalities. Four patients harbor yet non-described SRD5A2 gene mutations: a single nucleotide deletion (del642T), a G158R amino acid substitution, a splice junction mutation (IVS3+1G>A), and the insertion of a cytosine (217_218insC) occurring at a CCCC motif. This is the first report of a single-nucleotide insertion in the coding sequence of the SRD5A2 gene. In addition to these new mutations, this investigation reveals the prevalence of G183S substitution among a subset of African-Brazilian patients and presents evidences of the recurrence of already known mutations.

15970799	Functional characterization of SLCO1B1 (OATP-C) variants, SLCO1B1*5, SLCO1B1*15 and SLCO1B1*15+C1007G, by using transient expression systems of HeLa and HEK293 cells. OBJECTIVES: SLCO1B1*5 and SLCO1B1*15 have been reported to reduce the clearance of pravastatin in healthy volunteers. However, there remains controversy in the effects of SLCO1B1*5 on the activity of OATP1B1 in vitro. In addition, the effect of SLCO1B1*15 on the function of OATP1B1 has not been studied using cDNA-expression systems. Object of the present study was to study the influence of SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G, a novel haplotype found in a patient with pravastatin-induced myopathy, on the functional properties of OATP1B1 by transient expression systems of HEK293 and HeLa cells using endogenous conjugates and statins as substrates. METHODS: Transporting assays for endogenous substrates were performed using tritium labeled estradiol-17beta-D-glucuronide and estrone-3-sulfate. Quantitation of pravastatin, atorvastatin, cerivastatin and simvastatin were carried out using HPLC tandem mass spectrometry. RESULTS: The transporting activities of cells expressing SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G decreased significantly but those of SLCO1B1*1b, *1a+C1007G and *1b+C1007G were not altered for all of the substrates tested except for simvastatin. Kinetic analysis of pravastatin and atorvastatin showed that Km values were not altered but Vmax values decreased significantly in cells expressing SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G. Immunocytochemical study showed that SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G proteins are localized not only at the plasma membrane but also in the intracellular space. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that 521T>C, existing commonly in SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G, is the key single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that determines the functional properties of SLCO1B1*5, *15 and *15+C1007G allelic proteins and that decreased activities of these variant proteins are mainly caused by a sorting error produced by this SNP.

16737910	Identification of the nuclear localization motif in the ETV6 (TEL) protein. ETV6, or Translocation-Ets-Leukemia (TEL), is an ETS family transcriptional repressor that is essential for establishing hematopoiesis in neonatal bone marrow, and is frequently a target of chromosomal translocations in human cancer. ETV6 is predominantly a nuclear phosphoprotein that represses transcription by binding directly to the promoters of target genes. The nuclear localization mechanism of ETV6, however, is not well understood. In this report, we provide evidence that a nuclear localization signal (NLS) exists in the C-terminal region of ETV6. ETV6 proteins with mutations outside of amino acids 332-452 localize to the nucleus, whereas proteins with mutations within amino acids 332-452 remain in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, when a fragment of ETV6 comprised of amino acids 332-452 was fused to cytoplasmic beta-galactosidase protein, the fusion protein was able to enter the nucleus. These results strongly indicate that residues 332-452 mediate nuclear localization of ETV6.

16822828	Genotyping of five chinese patients with 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency diagnosed through high-performance liquid chromatography serum adrenal profile: identification of two novel CYP17 mutations. CONTEXT: 17alpha-Hydroxylase deficiency is a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia caused by CYP17 gene mutations. OBJECTIVE: Five Chinese patients with 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency were genotyped. PATIENTS: The five patients derived from four families living in Shandong Province, China. The diagnosis of 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency was initially established through HPLC serum adrenal profiles in Qilu Hospital, China, from 1983-1993. RESULTS: Three CYP17 gene mutations were identified from these patients. Among them, V311fs and Y329fs are two novel frame-shifting mutations. V311fs is an 8-bp nucleotide (TTAAATGG) deletion in exon 5. Y329fs is a deletion-insertion combined mutation (TAC-->AA) at codon 329 in exon 6. Two homozygotes for Y329fs and one compound heterozygote for Y329fs and V311fs were identified from three different families. Two homozygous sisters for the D487_S488_F489 deletion were identified. CONCLUSION: The results confirmed the diagnostic value of the HPLC serum adrenal profile for 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency. The D487_S488_F489 deletion had been identified in two previously genotyped Chinese families. In our present study, a third Chinese family with this mutation was identified, suggesting that this mutation is a prevalent CYP17 mutation in the Chinese population. The identification of Y329fs mutation in addition to three previously identified mutations at codon 329 suggests that codon 329 is an unstable point of the CYP17 gene. The mutations identified from our five patients appear to be random, but the recurrence of the Y329fs mutation may be attributed to a founder effect. Our studies suggest that 17alpha-hydroxylase deficiency may not be rare in the Chinese population.

17351238	A dramatic drop in blood pressure following prehospital GTN administration. A male in his sixties with no history of cardiac chest pain awoke with chest pain following an afternoon sleep. The patient did not self medicate. The patient's observations were within normal limits, he was administered oxygen via a face mask and glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Several minutes after the GTN the patient experienced a sudden drop in blood pressure and heart rate, this was rectified by atropine sulphate and a fluid challenge. There was no further deterioration in the patient's condition during transport to hospital. There are very few documented case like this in the prehospital scientific literature. The cause appears to be the Bezold-Jarish reflex, stimulation of the ventricular walls which in turn decreases sympathetic outflow from the vasomotor centre. Prehospital care providers who are managing any patient with a syncopal episode that fails to recover within a reasonable time frame should consider the Bezold-Jarisch reflex as the cause and manage the patient accordingly.

18189233	RNASEL and RNASEL-inhibitor variation and prostate cancer risk in Afro-Caribbeans. BACKGROUND: Afro-Caribbeans from Tobago are at high risk of developing prostate cancer. This elevated risk of prostate cancer is shared by populations of African ancestry living in diverse environments in the Western hemisphere. Variation in the ribonuclease L (RNASEL) gene has recently been reported to be associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer. However, whether RNASEL variation contributes to the increased risk of prostate cancer observed in populations of African ancestry remains unclear. METHODS: We resequenced the positional candidate gene RNASEL in 48 prostate cancer cases and genotyped the previously reported R462Q and D541E polymorphisms in 230 prostate cancer cases and 458 controls. We also examined the inhibitor of RNASEL (ABCE1) for variation associated with prostate cancer risk. RESULTS: We found no evidence of association between R462Q and D541E polymorphisms and prostate cancer risk in our case/control analysis. A novel variant (K294E) was identified in a single heterozygous individual with prostate cancer. We also observed a 20 bp insertion/deletion polymorphism 1,109 bp upstream of the initiation codon, but this variant was not associated with prostate cancer. We identified 16 single nucleotide polymorphisms in the ABCE1 gene, only 3 of which had a minor allele frequency >5%. A common A/G transition -1,071 bp from the transcriptional start site was genotyped and showed no evidence of association with prostate cancer. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that common variation in the putative prostate cancer susceptibility gene, RNASEL, or its inhibitor does not contribute significantly to prostate cancer risk in this Afro-Caribbean population.

18483878	Exaggerated expression of inflammatory mediators in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide knockout (VIP-/-) mice with cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is an immunomodulatory neuropeptide distributed in micturition pathways. VIP(-/-) mice exhibit altered bladder function and neurochemical properties in micturition pathways after cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Given VIP's role as an anti-inflammatory mediator, we hypothesized that VIP(-/-) mice would exhibit enhanced inflammatory mediator expression after cystitis. A mouse inflammatory cytokine and receptor RT2 profiler array was used to determine regulated transcripts in the urinary bladder of wild type (WT) and VIP(-/-) mice with or without CYP-induced cystitis (150 mg/kg; i.p.; 48 h). Four binary comparisons were made: WT control versus CYP treatment (48 h), VIP(-/-) control versus CYP treatment (48 h), WT control versus VIP(-/-) control, and WT with CYP treatment (48 h) versus VIP(-/-) with CYP treatment (48 h). The genes presented represent (1) greater than 1.5-fold change in either direction and (2) the p value is less than 0.05 for the comparison being made. Several regulated genes were validated using enzyme-linked immunoassays including IL-1beta and CXCL1. CYP treatment significantly (p < or = 0.001) increased expression of CXCL1 and IL-1beta in the urinary bladder of WT and VIP(-/-) mice, but expression in VIP(-/-) mice with CYP treatment was significantly (p < or = 0.001) greater (4.2- to 13-fold increase) than that observed in WT urinary bladder (3.6- to 5-fold increase). The data suggest that in VIP(-/-) mice with bladder inflammation, inflammatory mediators are increased above that observed in WT with CYP. This shift in balance may contribute to increased bladder dysfunction in VIP(-/-) mice with bladder inflammation and altered neurochemical expression in micturition pathways.

18631865	mToR inhibitors-induced proteinuria: mechanisms, significance, and management. Massive urinary protein excretion has been observed after conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to mammalian target of rapamycin (mToR) inhibitors, especially sirolimus, in renal transplant recipients with chronic allograft nephropathy. Because proteinuria is a major predictive factor of poor transplantation outcome, many studies focused on this adverse event during the past years. Whether proteinuria was due to sirolimus or only a consequence of calcineurin inhibitors withdrawal remained unsolved until high range proteinuria has been observed during sirolimus therapy in islet transplantation and in patients who received sirolimus de novo. Podocyte injury and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis have been related to mToR inhibition in some patients, but the pathways underlying these lesions remain hypothetic. We discuss herein the possible mechanisms and the significance of mToR blockade-induced proteinuria.

18791947	A case of Bernard-Soulier Syndrome due to a homozygous four bases deletion (TGAG) of GPIbalpha gene: lack of GPIbalpha but absence of bleeding. More than 20 DNA mutations with different inheritance pattern have been described in patients with Bernard-Soulier Syndrome (BSS), leading to abnormal or absent synthesis and/or expression of GPIbalpha. Clinical phenotype shows considerable variation between individuals, such as bleeding, platelet count and the percentage of large platelets. We describe in a BSS patient the first case of homozygous four bases deletion (TGAG) in the gpIbalpha gene coding sequence, leading to a premature stop codon. In the propositus, blood smears revealed giant platelets (30 x 10(9) platelets/L), and platelet agglutination to ristocetin was absent. Propositus' parents are consanguineous. His father and paternal grandmother showed a mild thrombocytopenia (108 x 10(9)/L and 120 x 10(9)/L platelets respectively) while mothers and sister's referred normal platelet counts. The surface expression of GPIbalpha was practically undetectable by flow-cytometry and western blot in the patient and was reduced in the father. Proband's DNA analysis revealed a homozygous four-base-pair deletion (TGAG), starting from the last base of the codon for Ser39, leading to a coding frame shift with a new termination codon after 11 novel amino acids. The same mutation was seen in heterozygosis in both parents. This is the first report of GPIbalpha TGAG deletion in homozygous state even if the defect has already been described in a case of compound heterozygosis. Surprisingly, the propositus does not report any spontaneous bleeding tendency.

19370764	Identification and molecular characterization of six novel mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase gamma subunit (GNPTG) gene in patients with mucolipidosis III gamma. Mucolipidosis type III (MLIII) is an autosomal recessive disorder affecting lysosomal hydrolase trafficking. In a study of 10 patients from seven families with a clinical phenotype and enzymatic diagnosis of MLIII, six novel GNPTG gene mutations were identified. These included missense (p.T286M) and nonsense (p.W111X) mutations and a transition in the obligate AG-dinucleotide of the intron 8 acceptor splice site (c.610-2A>G). Three microdeletions were also identified, two of which (c.611delG and c.640_667del28) were located within the coding region whereas one (c.609+28_610-16del) was located entirely within intron 8. RT-PCR analysis of the c.610-2A>G transition demonstrated that the change altered splicing, leading to the production of two distinct aberrantly spliced forms, viz. the skipping of exon 9 (p.G204_K247del) or the retention of introns 8 and 9 (p.G204VfsX28). RT-PCR analysis, performed on a patient homozygous for the intronic deletion (c.609+28_610-16del), failed to detect any GNPTG RNA transcripts. To determine whether c.609+28_610-16del allele-derived transcripts were subject to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), patient fibroblasts were incubated with the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin. An RT-PCR fragment retaining 43 bp of intron 8 was consistently detected suggesting that the 33-bp genomic deletion had elicited NMD. Quantitative real-time PCR and GNPTG western blot analysis confirmed that the homozygous microdeletion p.G204VfsX17 had elicited NMD resulting in failure to synthesize GNPTG protein. Analysis of the sequences surrounding the microdeletion breakpoints revealed either intrinsic repetitivity of the deleted region or short direct repeats adjacent to the breakpoint junctions. This is consistent with these repeats having mediated the microdeletions via replication slippage and supports the view that the mutational spectrum of the GNPTG gene is strongly influenced by the properties of the local DNA sequence environment.

20331935	A cross-sectional evaluation of the effect of risperidone and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on bone mineral density in boys. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia on trabecular bone mineral density (BMD) in children and adolescents. METHOD: Medically healthy 7- to 17-year-old males chronically treated, in a naturalistic setting, with risperidone were recruited for this cross-sectional study through child psychiatry outpatient clinics between November 2005 and June 2007. Anthropometric measurements and laboratory testing were conducted. The clinical diagnoses were based on chart review, and developmental and treatment history was obtained from the medical record. Volumetric BMD of the ultradistal radius was measured using peripheral quantitative computed tomography, and areal BMD of the lumbar spine was estimated using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. RESULTS: Hyperprolactinemia was present in 49% of 83 boys (n = 41) treated with risperidone for a mean of 2.9 years. Serum testosterone concentration increased with pubertal status but was not affected by hyperprolactinemia. As expected, bone mineral content and BMD increased with sexual maturity. After adjusting for the stage of sexual development and height and BMI z scores, serum prolactin was negatively associated with trabecular volumetric BMD at the ultradistal radius (P < .03). Controlling for relevant covariates, we also found treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to be associated with lower trabecular BMD at the radius (P = .03) and BMD z score at the lumbar spine (P < .05). These findings became more marked when the analysis was restricted to non-Hispanic white patients. Of 13 documented fractures, 3 occurred after risperidone and SSRIs were started, and none occurred in patients with hyperprolactinemia. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to link risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia and SSRI treatment to lower BMD in children and adolescents. Future research should evaluate the longitudinal course of this adverse event to determine its temporal stability and whether a higher fracture rate ensues.

21059483	The GALT rush: high carrier frequency of an unusual deletion mutation of the GALT gene in the Ashkenazi population. Classic galactosemia is an autosomal recessive disorder of galactose metabolism manifesting in the first weeks of life following exposure to a milk-based diet. Despite the benefit of avoidance of lactose, many patients suffer from long-term complications including neurological deficits and ovarian failure. To date, over 230 mutations have been described in the GALT gene resulting in galactosemia. Recently, an unusual mutation was characterized causing a 5.5 kb deletion, with a relatively high carrier rate in subjects of Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) descent. The aim of this study was to estimate the carrier frequency of this mutation in the AJ population in Israel. For this purpose we developed a high-throughput methodology to genotype both normal and deleted alleles using a chip-based matrix-assisted laser desorption-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometer and Multiplex PCR. DNA samples of 760 anonymous AJ subjects were submitted for analysis, subsequently detecting six individuals heterozygous for the GALT deletion mutation, giving a carrier frequency of 1 in 127 (0.79%). Based on these results, we suggest that the method described here provides a basis for genetic screening and prenatal counseling and can potentially reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with delayed diagnosis of galactosemia in this patient population.

24055495	Long-term oral galactose treatment prevents cognitive deficits in male Wistar rats treated intracerebroventricularly with streptozotocin. Basic and clinical research has demonstrated that dementia of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD) type is associated with dysfunction of the insulin-receptor (IR) system followed by decreased glucose transport via glucose transporter GLUT4 and decreased glucose metabolism in brain cells. An alternative source of energy is d-galactose (the C-4-epimer of d-glucose) which is transported into the brain by insulin-independent GLUT3 transporter where it might be metabolized to glucose via the Leloir pathway. Exclusively parenteral daily injections of galactose induce memory deterioration in rodents and are used to generate animal aging model, but the effects of oral galactose treatment on cognitive functions have never been tested. We have investigated the effects of continuous daily oral galactose (200 mg/kg/day) treatment on cognitive deficits in streptozotocin-induced (STZ-icv) rat model of sAD, tested by Morris Water Maze and Passive Avoidance test, respectively. One month of oral galactose treatment initiated immediately after the STZ-icv administration, successfully prevented development of the STZ-icv-induced cognitive deficits. Beneficial effect of oral galactose was independent of the rat age and of the galactose dose ranging from 100 to 300 mg/kg/day. Additionally, oral galactose administration led to the appearance of galactose in the blood. The increase of galactose concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid was several times lower after oral than after parenteral administration of the same galactose dose. Oral galactose exposure might have beneficial effects on learning and memory ability and could be worth investigating for improvement of cognitive deficits associated with glucose hypometabolism in AD.

27084744	NOTCH1 and SOX10 are Essential for Proliferation and Radiation Resistance of Cancer Stem-Like Cells in Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma. PURPOSE: Although the existence of cancer stem cells (CSC) in adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) has been proposed, lack of assays for their propagation and uncertainty about molecular markers prevented their characterization. Our objective was to isolate CSC from ACC and provide insight into signaling pathways that support their propagation. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To isolate CSC from ACC and characterize them, we used ROCK inhibitor-supplemented cell culture, immunomagnetic cell sorting, andin vitro/in vivoassays for CSC viability and tumorigenicity. RESULTS: We identified in ACC CD133-positive CSC that expressed NOTCH1 and SOX10, formed spheroids, and initiated tumors in nude mice. CD133(+)ACC cells produced activated NOTCH1 (N1ICD) and generated CD133(-)cells that expressed JAG1 as well as neural differentiation factors NR2F1, NR2F2, and p27Kip1. Knockdowns of NOTCH1, SOX10, and their common effector FABP7 had negative effects on each other, inhibited spheroidogenesis, and induced cell death pointing at their essential roles in CSC maintenance. Downstream effects of FABP7 knockdown included suppression of a broad spectrum of genes involved in proliferation, ribosome biogenesis, and metabolism. Among proliferation-linked NOTCH1/FABP7 targets, we identified SKP2 and its substrate p27Kip1. A g-secretase inhibitor, DAPT, selectively depleted CD133(+)cells, suppressed N1ICD and SKP2, induced p27Kip1, inhibited ACC growthin vivo, and sensitized CD133(+)cells to radiation. CONCLUSIONS: These results establish in the majority of ACC the presence of a previously uncharacterized population of CD133(+)cells with neural stem properties, which are driven by SOX10, NOTCH1, and FABP7. Sensitivity of these cells to Notch inhibition and their dependence on SKP2 offer new opportunities for targeted ACC therapies.

18235024	Cone dystrophy with supernormal rod response is strictly associated with mutations in KCNV2. PURPOSE: Cone dystrophy with supernormal rod response (CDSRR) is a retinal disorder characterized by reduced visual acuity, color vision defects, and specific alterations of ERG responses that feature elevated scotopic b-wave amplitudes at high luminance intensities. Mutations in PDE6H and in KCNV2 have been described in CDSRR. A combined clinical and genetic study was conducted in a cohort of patients with CDSRR, to substantiate these prior RESULTS: Seventeen patients from 13 families underwent a detailed ophthalmic examination including color vision testing, Goldmann visual fields, fundus photography, Ganzfeld and multifocal ERGs, and optical coherence tomography. The coding sequences and flanking intron/UTR sequences of PDE6C and KCNV2 were screened for mutations by means of DHPLC and direct DNA sequencing of PCR-amplified genomic DNA. results. Whereas no mutations were detected in the PDE6H gene, mutations in KCNV2 were identified in all patients, in either the homozygous or compound heterozygous state. Ten of the 11 identified mutations were novel, including three missense and six truncating mutations and one gross deletion. The mutations concordantly segregate in all available families according a recessive mode of inheritance. The CDSRR phenotype was associated with reduced visual acuity of variable degree and color vision defects. Macular defects ranging from mild pigmentary changes to distinct foveal atrophy were present in nine patients. Progression of the disease was observed in only three of seven patients with follow-up data. CONCLUSIONS: The phenotype of cone dystrophy with supernormal rod response is tightly linked with mutations in KCNV2.

19779499	Novel CACNA1S mutation causes autosomal dominant hypokalemic periodic paralysis in a South American family. Hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (HypoPP) is an autosomal dominant disorder, which is characterized by periodic attacks of muscle weakness associated with a decrease in the serum potassium level. A major disease-causing gene for HypoPP has been identified as CACNA1S, which encodes the skeletal muscle calcium channel alpha-subunit with four transmembrane domains (I-IV), each with six transmembrane segments (S1-S6). To date, all CACNA1S mutations identified in HypoPP patients are located within the voltage-sensor S4 segment. In this study we report a novel CACNA1S mutation in a new region of the protein, the S3 segment of domain III. We characterized a four-generation South American family with HypoPP. Genetic analysis identified a novel V876E mutation in all HypoPP patients in the family, but not in normal family members or 160 control people. Clinical analysis indicates that mutation V876E is associated with a severe outcome as characterized by a very early age of onset, complete penetrance and a severe prognosis including death. These results identify a new mutation in CACNA1S and expand the spectrum of CACNA1S mutations associated with HypoPP.

19811499	Independent and cooperative roles of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, nuclear factor-kappaB, and bone morphogenetic protein-2 in regulation of metastasis and osteomimicry of prostate cancer cells and differentiation and mineralization of MC3T3-E1 osteoblast-like cells. The molecular mechanisms involved in prostate cancer (PC) metastasis and bone remodeling are poorly understood. We recently reported that phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) mediates transcriptional regulation and activation of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 signaling by nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB in bone metastatic prostate cancer cells. In the present study, we demonstrate that NF-kappaB, whether activated by recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha or by ectopic expression of the p65 subunit, is involved in extracellular matrix adhesion and invasion of osteotropic PC-3 and C4-2B, but not LNCaP, cells. The enhanced metastatic potential was associated with transcriptional upregulation of osteopontin, osteocalcin, and collagen IA1 in osteotropic PC cells, suggesting their role in osteomimicry of PC cells. Unlike BMP-4, BMP-2 protein enhanced the invasive properties of C4-2B cells, but not in LNCaP cells. Also, this effect was nullified by Noggin. In addition, BMP-2 mediates TNF-alpha-induced invasion of C4-2B cells in a NF-kappaB-dependent fashion. TNF-alpha or conditioned media (CM) of TNF-alpha-stimulated C4-2B cells upregulated BMP-2 and BMP-dependent Smad transcripts and inhibited receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand transcripts in RAW 264.7 preosteoclast cells, respectively, implying that this factor may contribute to suppression of osteoclastogenesis via direct and paracrine mechanisms. In contrast, CM of TNF-alpha-stimulate or BMP2-stimulated C4-2B cells induced in vitro mineralization of MC3T3-E1 osteoblast cells in a BMP-2-dependent and NF-kappaB-dependent manner, respectively. Taken together, the results suggest that mutual interactions between these factors may be pivotal not only in enhancing the osteomimicry and metastatic potential of PC cells, but also in bone remodeling and in shifting the balance from osteoclastogenesis towards osteoblastogenesis.

20801104	Association study of polymorphisms in the promoter region of DRD4 with schizophrenia, depression, and heroin addiction. This study investigated the possible association between three functional polymorphisms in the promoter region of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) gene and schizophrenia, depression, and heroin addiction. Genomic DNA was isolated from the venous blood leukocytes of 322 unrelated patients with schizophrenia, 156 patients with depression, 300 patients with heroin addiction, and 300 healthy unrelated individuals. Polymorphisms in the promoter region of DRD4 (-120 bp duplication, -616C/G, and -521C/T) were genotyped using allele-specific polymerase chain reaction analysis. Genotype and allele were analyzed using SPSS 11.5 software. Results of this analysis indicated that there is a strong finding of -120 bp duplication allele frequencies with schizophrenia (p=0.008) and weak finding with -1240 L/S and for paranoid schizophrenia (p=0.022). Interestingly, there is a stronger finding with -521 C/T allele frequencies with heroin dependence (p=0.0002). These observations strongly suggest that the -120-bp duplication polymorphism of DRD4 is associated with schizophrenia and that the -521 C/T polymorphism is associated with heroin addiction.

21080147	Novel CRELD1 gene mutations in patients with atrioventricular septal defect. BACKGROUND: Atrioventricular septal defects (AVSDs) occur as clinical defects of several different syndromes, as autosomal dominant defects, and as sporadically occurring malformations. Consequently, there is genetic heterogeneity, but until recently, little is known about the genes involving in the pathogenesis of AVSD. CRELD1 gene, a novel cell adhesion molecule, is a candidate gene for AVSD. METHODS: This study included 133 patients with AVSD and 200 healthy controls. Peripheral blood samples were collected and genomic DNA was extracted from the leukocytes. CRELD1 was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with specific primers. The sequences of PCR products were compared between the patients and controls. RESULTS: In a patient, a C-to-G transition was identified at nucleotide 857 in exon 8 that resulted in a substitution of alanine for proline at amino acid 286 in the first calcium-binding EGF domain. This patient had an isolated partial AVSD and the mutation was inherited from her mother. Another mutation was detected in a patient with a partial AVSD and evidence of Down syndrome. The heterozygous c.973G>A transition in exon 9 resulted in a substitution of lysine for glutamic acid at amino acid 325 (E325K) in the second calcium-binding EGF domain. CONCLUSIONS: Two novel CRELD1 mutations were identified in the calcium-binding EGF domain in patients with AVSD. CRELD1 is likely to be an AVSD-susceptibility gene and CRELD1 mutations may increase the risk of developing a heart defect rather than being a direct causative mutation.

21135151	Impact of CCR5delta32 host genetic background and disease progression on HIV-1 intrahost evolutionary processes: efficient hypothesis testing through hierarchical phylogenetic models. The interplay between C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) host genetic background, disease progression, and intrahost HIV-1 evolutionary dynamics remains unclear because differences in viral evolution between hosts limit the ability to draw conclusions across hosts stratified into clinically relevant populations. Similar inference problems are proliferating across many measurably evolving pathogens for which intrahost sequence samples are readily available. To this end, we propose novel hierarchical phylogenetic models (HPMs) that incorporate fixed effects to test for differences in dynamics across host populations in a formal statistical framework employing stochastic search variable selection and model averaging. To clarify the role of CCR5 host genetic background and disease progression on viral evolutionary patterns, we obtain gp120 envelope sequences from clonal HIV-1 variants isolated at multiple time points in the course of infection from populations of HIV-1-infected individuals who only harbored CCR5-using HIV-1 variants at all time points. Presence or absence of a CCR5 wt/DD32 genotype and progressive or long-term nonprogressive course of infection stratify the clinical populations in a two-way design. As compared with the standard approach of analyzing sequences from each patient independently, the HPM provides more efficient estimation of evolutionary parameters such as nucleotide substitution rates and d(N)/d(S) rate ratios, as shown by significant shrinkage of the estimator variance. The fixed effects also correct for nonindependence of data between populations and results in even further shrinkage of individual patient estimates. Model selection suggests an association between nucleotide substitution rate and disease progression, but a role for CCR5 genotype remains elusive. Given the absence of clear d(N)/d(S) differences between patient groups, delayed onset of AIDS symptoms appears to be solely associated with lower viral replication rates rather than with differences in selection on amino acid fixation.

22836123	Late-onset scleroderma renal crisis induced by tacrolimus and prednisolone: a case report. Scleroderma renal crisis (SRC) is a rare complication of systemic sclerosis (SSc) but can be severe enough to require temporary or permanent renal replacement therapy. Moderate to high dose corticosteroid use is recognized as a major risk factor for SRC. Furthermore, there have been reports of thrombotic microangiopathy precipitated by cyclosporine in patients with SSc. In this article, we report a patient with SRC induced by tacrolimus and corticosteroids. The aim of this work is to call attention to the risk of tacrolimus use in patients with SSc.

25946186	TIPE2 Inhibits Lung Cancer Growth Attributing to Promotion of Apoptosis by Regulating Some Apoptotic Molecules Expression. Recent studies found that TIPE2 was involved in cancer development. However, little is known about TIPE2 in lung cancer. Our study aims to clarify the role of TIPE2 in lung carcinogenesis. We examined the expression of TIPE2 in lung squamous cancer (LSC), small cell lung cancer and lung adenocarcinoma (AdC) tissues and found that TIPE2 expression was lost in small cell lung cancer, compared with adjacent non-tumor tissues. Overexpression of TIPE2 significantly inhibited the growth of lung cancer cell H446 in vitro and even suppressed tumor formation in vivo. Flow cytometry analysis found TIPE2 overexpression promoted apoptosis of H446. In TIPE2 over-expression cells, caspase-3, caspase-9, and Bax were significantly up-regulated while Bcl-2 was down-regulated. Moreover, coincident results were shown by immunohistochemistry in tumors from nude mice. TIPE2 inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt, while promoting the phosphorylation of P38, but had no effect on IkBa and ERK pathway. Taken together, TIPE2 promoted lung cancer cell apoptosis through affecting apoptosis-related molecules caspase-3, caspase-9, Bcl-2 and Bax, possibly via regulating P38 and Akt pathways, indicating that TIPE2 might be a novel marker for lung cancer diagnosis and therapy.

27134166	Metabolic Symbiosis Enables Adaptive Resistance to Anti-angiogenic Therapy that Is Dependent on mTOR Signaling. Therapeutic targeting of tumor angiogenesis with VEGF inhibitors results in demonstrable, but transitory efficacy in certain human tumors and mouse models of cancer, limited by unconventional forms of adaptive/evasive resistance. In one such mouse model, potent angiogenesis inhibitors elicit compartmental reorganization of cancer cells around remaining blood vessels. The glucose and lactate transporters GLUT1 and MCT4 are induced in distal hypoxic cells in a HIF1a-dependent fashion, indicative of glycolysis. Tumor cells proximal to blood vessels instead express the lactate transporter MCT1, and p-S6, the latter reflecting mTOR signaling. Normoxic cancer cells import and metabolize lactate, resulting in upregulation of mTOR signaling via glutamine metabolism enhanced by lactate catabolism. Thus, metabolic symbiosis is established in the face of angiogenesis inhibition, whereby hypoxic cancer cells import glucose and export lactate, while normoxic cells import and catabolize lactate. mTOR signaling inhibition disrupts this metabolic symbiosis, associated with upregulation of the glucose transporter GLUT2.

27184800	Metallothionein-1 as a biomarker of altered redox metabolism in hepatocellular carcinoma cells exposed to sorafenib. BACKGROUND: Sorafenib, a kinase inhibitor active against various solid tumours, induces oxidative stress and ferroptosis, a new form of oxidative necrosis, in some cancer cells. Clinically-applicable biomarkers that reflect the impact of sorafenib on the redox metabolism of cancer cells are lacking. METHODS: We used gene expression microarrays, real-time PCR, immunoblot, protein-specific ELISA, and gene reporter constructs encoding the enzyme luciferase to study the response of a panel of cancer cells to sorafenib. Tumour explants prepared from surgical hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) samples and serum samples obtained from HCC patients receiving sorafenib were also used. RESULTS: We observed that genes of the metallothionein-1 (MT1) family are induced in the HCC cell line Huh7 exposed to sorafenib. Sorafenib increased the expression of MT1G mRNA in a panel of human cancer cells, an effect that was not observed with eight other clinically-approved kinase inhibitors. We identified the minimal region of the MT1G promoter that confers inducibility by sorafenib to a 133 base pair region containing an Anti-oxidant Response Element (ARE) and showed the essential role of the transcription factor NRF2 (Nuclear factor erythroid 2-Related Factor 2). We examined the clinical relevance of our findings by analysing the regulation of MT1G in five tumour explants prepared from surgical HCC samples. Finally, we showed that the protein levels of MT1 increase in the serum of some HCC patients receiving sorafenib, and found an association with reduced overall survival. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that MT1 constitute a biomarker adapted for exploring the impact of sorafenib on the redox metabolism of cancer cells.

27974047	FGFR1 and NTRK3 actionable alterations in "Wild-Type" gastrointestinal stromal tumors. BACKGROUND: About 10-15% of adult, and most pediatric, gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) lack mutations in KIT, PDGFRA, SDHx, or RAS pathway components (KRAS, BRAF, NF1). The identification of additional mutated genes in this rare subset of tumors can have important clinical benefit to identify altered biological pathways and select targeted therapies. METHODS: We performed comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) for coding regions in more than 300 cancer-related genes of 186 GISTs to assess for their somatic alterations. RESULTS: We identified 24 GIST lacking alterations in the canonical KIT/PDGFRA/RAS pathways, including 12 without SDHx alterations. These 24 patients were mostly adults (96%). The tumors had a 46% rate of nodal metastases. These 24 GIST were more commonly mutated at 7 genes: ARID1B, ATR, FGFR1, LTK, SUFU, PARK2 and ZNF217. Two tumors harbored FGFR1 gene fusions (FGFR1-HOOK3, FGFR1-TACC1) and one harbored an ETV6-NTRK3 fusion that responded to TRK inhibition. In an independent sample set, we identified 5 GIST cases lacking alterations in the KIT/PDGFRA/SDHx/RAS pathways, including two additional cases with FGFR1-TACC1 and ETV6-NTRK3 fusions. CONCLUSIONS: Using patient demographics, tumor characteristics, and CGP, we show that GIST lacking alterations in canonical genes occur in younger patients, frequently metastasize to lymph nodes, and most contain deleterious genomic alterations, including gene fusions involving FGFR1 and NTRK3. If confirmed in larger series, routine testing for these translocations may be indicated for this subset of GIST. Moreover, these findings can be used to guide personalized treatments for patients with GIST. Trial registration NCT 02576431. Registered October 12, 2015.

28204828	TIEG1 deficiency confers enhanced myocardial protection in the infarcted heart by mediating the Pten/Akt signalling pathway. The transforming growth factor (TGF)-b-inducible early gene-1 (TIEG1) plays a crucial role in modulating cell apoptosis and proliferation in a number of diseases, including pancreatic cancer, leukaemia and osteoporosis. However, the functional role of TIEG1 in the heart has not been fully defined. In this study, we first investigated the role of TIEG1 in ischaemic heart disease. For in vitro experiments, cardiomyocytes were isolated from both TIEG1 knockout (KO) and wile-type (WT) mice, and the apoptotic ratios were evaluated after a 48-h ischaemic insult. A cell proliferation assay was performed after 7 days of incubation under normoxic conditions. In addition, the angiogenic capacity of endothelial cells was determined by tube formation assay. For in vivo experiments, a model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established using both TIEG1 KO and WT mice. Echocardiography was performed at 3 and 28 days post-MI, whereas the haemodynamics test was performed 28 days post-MI. Histological analyses of apoptosis, proliferation, angiogenesis and infarct zone assessments were performed using terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) staining, BrdU immunostaining, a-smooth muscle actin (a-SMA)/CD31 immunostaining and Masson's trichrome staining, respectively. Changes in the expression of related proteins caused by TIEG1 deficiency were confirmed using both reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot analysis. Our results demonstrated that the absence of TIEG1 prevented cardiomyocytes from undergoing apoptosis and promoted higher proliferation; it stimulated the proliferation of endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo. Improved cardiac function and less scar formation were observed in TIEG1 KO mice, and we also observed the altered expression of phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten), Akt and Bcl-2/Bax, as well as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). On the whole, our findings indicate that the absence of TIEG1 plays a cardioprotective role in ischaemic heart disease by promoting changes in Pten/Akt signalling.

16001362	An autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia linked to chromosome 16q22.1 is associated with a single-nucleotide substitution in the 5' untranslated region of the gene encoding a protein with spectrin repeat and Rho guanine-nucleotide exchange-factor domains. Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia (ADCA) is a group of heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorders. By positional cloning, we have identified the gene strongly associated with a form of degenerative ataxia (chromosome 16q22.1-linked ADCA) that clinically shows progressive pure cerebellar ataxia. Detailed examination by use of audiogram suggested that sensorineural hearing impairment may be associated with ataxia in our families. After restricting the candidate region in chromosome 16q22.1 by haplotype analysis, we found that all patients from 52 unrelated Japanese families harbor a heterozygous C-->T single-nucleotide substitution, 16 nt upstream of the putative translation initiation site of the gene for a hypothetical protein DKFZP434I216, which we have called "puratrophin-1" (Purkinje cell atrophy associated protein-1). The full-length puratrophin-1 mRNA had an open reading frame of 3,576 nt, predicted to contain important domains, including the spectrin repeat and the guanine-nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rho GTPases, followed by the Dbl-homologous domain, which indicates the role of puratrophin-1 in intracellular signaling and actin dynamics at the Golgi apparatus. Puratrophin-1--normally expressed in a wide range of cells, including epithelial hair cells in the cochlea--was aggregated in Purkinje cells of the chromosome 16q22.1-linked ADCA brains. Consistent with the protein prediction data of puratrophin-1, the Golgi-apparatus membrane protein and spectrin also formed aggregates in Purkinje cells. The present study highlights the importance of the 5' untranslated region (UTR) in identification of genes of human disease, suggests that a single-nucleotide substitution in the 5' UTR could be associated with protein aggregation, and indicates that the GEF protein is associated with cerebellar degeneration in humans.

16158428	Delineation of the clinical phenotype associated with OPHN1 mutations based on the clinical and neuropsychological evaluation of three families. Recent reports have demonstrated that mutations in the OPHN1 gene were responsible for a syndromic rather than non-specific mental retardation. Abnormalities of the posterior fossa with cerebellar hypoplasia have been demonstrated in all male patients reported to date. We report here a new family with X-linked mental retardation due to mutation in OPHN1 and present unpublished data about two families previously reported, concerning the facial and psychological phenotype of affected males and carrier females. Our study confirms that cerebellar hypoplasia is a hallmark of this syndrome. In addition, affected males display facial similarities that can help the diagnosis. Most carrier females have mild mental retardation and subtle facial changes.

16786513	McArdle disease: the mutation spectrum of PYGM in a large Italian cohort. Deficiency of the muscle isozyme of glycogen phosphorylase is causative of McArdle disease or Glycogen storage disease type V (GSD-V), the most common autosomal recessive disorder of glycogen metabolism. The typical clinical presentation is characterized by exercise intolerance with cramps, and recurrent myoglobinuria. To date, 46 mutations in the PYGM gene have been detected in GSD-V patients. We report the mutational spectrum in 68 Italian patients. We identified 30 different mutations in the PYGM gene, including 19 mutations that have not been reported previously. The novel mutations include: eight missense mutations (c.475G>A, p.G159R; c.689C>G, p.P230R; c.1094C>T, p.A365E; c.1151C>A, p.A384D; c.1182C>T, p.R428C; c.1471C>T, p.R491C; c.2444A>C, p.D815A; c.2477G>C, p.W826S), two nonsense mutations (c.1475G>A, p.W492X; c.1627A>T, p.K543X), five splice site mutations (c.855 +1G>C; c.1092 +1G>A; c. 1093-1G>T; c.1239 +1G>A; c.2380 +1G>A), and four deletions (c.715_717delGTC, p.V239del; c.304delA, p.N102DfsX4; c.1970_2177del, p.V657_G726; c.2113_2114delGG, p.G705RfsX16). Whereas we confirmed lack of direct correlation between the clinical phenotype and the genotype, we also found that the so-called 'common mutation' (p.R50X) accounted for about 43% of alleles in our cohort and that no population-related mutations are clearly identified in Italian patients.

17965424	Gastrointestinal tolerability of etoricoxib in rheumatoid arthritis patients: results of the etoricoxib vs diclofenac sodium gastrointestinal tolerability and effectiveness trial (EDGE-II). OBJECTIVE: A randomised, double-blind study to compare the gastrointestinal (GI) tolerability, safety and efficacy of etoricoxib and diclofenac in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 4086 patients (mean age 60.8 years) diagnosed with RA were enrolled and received etoricoxib 90 mg daily (n = 2032) or diclofenac 75 mg twice daily (n = 2054). Use of gastroprotective agents and low-dose aspirin was allowed. The prespecified primary end point consisted of the cumulative rate of patient discontinuations due to clinical and laboratory GI adverse experiences (AEs). General safety was also assessed, including adjudicated thrombotic cardiovascular event data. Efficacy was evaluated using the Patient Global Assessment of Disease Status (PGADS; 0-4 point scale). RESULTS: Mean (SD; maximum) duration of treatment was 19.3 (10.3; 32.9) and 19.1 (10.4; 33.1) months in the etoricoxib and diclofenac groups, respectively. The cumulative discontinuation rate due to GI AEs was significantly lower with etoricoxib than diclofenac (5.2 vs 8.5 events per 100 patient-years, respectively; hazard ratio 0.62 (95% CI: 0.47, 0.81; p<or=0.001)). The incidence of discontinuations for hypertension-related and oedema-related AEs were significantly higher with etoricoxib (2.5% and 1.1% respectively) compared with diclofenac (1.5% and 0.4% respectively; p<0.001 for hypertension and p<0.01 for oedema). Etoricoxib and diclofenac treatment resulted in similar efficacy (PGADS mean changes from baseline -0.62 vs -0.58, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Etoricoxib 90 mg demonstrated a significantly lower risk for discontinuing treatment due to GI AEs compared with diclofenac 150 mg. Discontinuations from renovascular AEs, although less common than discontinuations from GI AEs, were significantly higher with etoricoxib.

18672102	GATA4 mutations in 486 Chinese patients with congenital heart disease. Recent studies have reported germline mutations in GATA4 gene in some types of congenital heart disease (CHD). However, the prevalence of GATA4 mutations in CHD and the correlation between the GATA4 genotype and CHD phenotype have not been extensively studied. We screened germline mutations in the coding exons and the flanking intron sequences of the GATA4 gene in 486 CHD patients by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC), and confirmed the mutations by sequencing. Nine distinct mutations including one small deletion mutation (46delS), two small insertion mutations (118-119insA and 125-126insAA), and six non-synonymous mutations (A6V, P163S, E359K, P407Q, S429T and A442V) were identified in 12 of the 486 patients (nine with ventricular septal defect, two with Tetralogy of Fallot, and one with endocardial cushion defect). Of them, two patients carrying E359K mutation were from two generations in one family with ventricular septal defect (VSD). Interestingly, a nucleotide insertion of c.1146+25insA in exon 6 was detected in five VSD patients, but not in 486 normal healthy controls. Our findings are useful in understanding the prevalence of GATA4 mutations and the correlation between the GATA4 genotype and the CHD phenotype in Chinese patients.

18768591	Serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 in doxorubicin-induced nephrotic syndrome. Doxorubicin-induced nephropathy leads to epithelial sodium channel (ENaC)-dependent volume retention and renal fibrosis. The aldosterone-sensitive serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase SGK1 has been shown to participate in the stimulation of ENaC and to mediate renal fibrosis following mineralocorticoid and salt excess. The present study was performed to elucidate the role of SGK1 in the volume retention and fibrosis during nephrotic syndrome. To this end, doxorubicin (15 mug/g body wt) was injected intravenously into gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1 (sgk1(-/-)) and their wild-type littermates (sgk1(+/+)). Doxorubicin treatment resulted in heavy proteinuria (>100 mg protein/mg crea) in 15/44 of sgk1(+/+) and 15/44 of sgk1(-/-) mice leading to severe nephrotic syndrome with ascites, lipidemia, and hypoalbuminemia in both genotypes. Plasma aldosterone levels increased in nephrotic mice of both genotypes and was followed by increased SGK1 protein expression in sgk1(+/+) mice. Urinary sodium excretion reached signficantly lower values in sgk1(+/+) mice (15 +/- 5 mumol/mg crea) than in sgk1(-/-) mice (35 +/- 5 mumol/mg crea) and was associated with a significantly higher body weight gain in sgk1(+/+) compared with sgk1(-/-) mice (+6.6 +/- 0.7 vs. +4.1 +/- 0.8 g). During the course of nephrotic syndrome, serum urea concentrations increased significantly faster in sgk1(-/-) mice than in sgk1(+/+) mice leading to uremia and a reduced median survival in sgk1(-/-) mice (29 vs. 40 days in sgk1(+/+) mice). In conclusion, gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1 showed blunted volume retention, yet were not protected against renal fibrosis during experimental nephrotic syndrome.

20431083	Antithrombotic drug use, cerebral microbleeds, and intracerebral hemorrhage: a systematic review of published and unpublished studies. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Cerebral microbleeds (MB) are potential risk factors for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), but it is unclear if they are a contraindication to using antithrombotic drugs. Insights could be gained by pooling data on MB frequency stratified by antithrombotic use in cohorts with ICH and ischemic stroke (IS)/transient ischemic attack (TIA). METHODS: We performed a systematic review of published and unpublished data from cohorts with stroke or TIA to compare the presence of MB in: (1) antithrombotic users vs nonantithrombotic users with ICH; (2) antithrombotic users vs nonusers with IS/TIA; and (3) ICH vs ischemic events stratified by antithrombotic use. We also analyzed published and unpublished follow-up data to determine the risk of ICH in antithrombotic users with MB. RESULTS: In a pooled analysis of 1460 ICH and 3817 IS/TIA, MB were more frequent in ICH vs IS/TIA in all treatment groups, but the excess increased from 2.8 (odds ratio; range, 2.3-3.5) in nonantithrombotic users to 5.7 (range, 3.4-9.7) in antiplatelet users and 8.0 (range, 3.5-17.8) in warfarin users (P difference=0.01). There was also an excess of MB in warfarin users vs nonusers with ICH (OR, 2.7; 95% CI, 1.6-4.4; P<0.001) but none in warfarin users with IS/TIA (OR, 1.3; 95% CI, 0.9-1.7; P=0.33; P difference=0.01). There was a smaller excess of MB in antiplatelet users vs nonusers with ICH (OR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.3-2.3; P<0.001), but findings were similar for antiplatelet users with IS/TIA (OR, 1.4; 95% CI, 1.2-1.7; P<0.001; P difference=0.25). In pooled follow-up data for 768 antithrombotic users, presence of MB at baseline was associated with a substantially increased risk of subsequent ICH (OR, 12.1; 95% CI, 3.4-42.5; P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The excess of MB in warfarin users with ICH compared to other groups suggests that MB increase the risk of warfarin-associated ICH. Limited prospective data corroborate these findings, but larger prospective studies are urgently required.

21070631	The dopamine b-hydroxylase -1021C/T polymorphism is associated with the risk of Alzheimer's disease in the Epistasis Project. BACKGROUND: The loss of noradrenergic neurones of the locus coeruleus is a major feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Dopamine b-hydroxylase (DBH) catalyses the conversion of dopamine to noradrenaline. Interactions have been reported between the low-activity -1021T allele (rs1611115) of DBH and polymorphisms of the pro-inflammatory cytokine genes, IL1A and IL6, contributing to the risk of AD. We therefore examined the associations with AD of the DBH -1021T allele and of the above interactions in the Epistasis Project, with 1757 cases of AD and 6294 elderly controls. METHODS: We genotyped eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the three genes, DBH, IL1A and IL6. We used logistic regression models and synergy factor analysis to examine potential interactions and associations with AD. RESULTS: We found that the presence of the -1021T allele was associated with AD: odds ratio = 1.2 (95% confidence interval: 1.06-1.4, p = 0.005). This association was nearly restricted to men < 75 years old: odds ratio = 2.2 (1.4-3.3, 0.0004). We also found an interaction between the presence of DBH -1021T and the -889TT genotype (rs1800587) of IL1A: synergy factor = 1.9 (1.2-3.1, 0.005). All these results were consistent between North Europe and North Spain. CONCLUSIONS: Extensive, previous evidence (reviewed here) indicates an important role for noradrenaline in the control of inflammation in the brain. Thus, the -1021T allele with presumed low activity may be associated with misregulation of inflammation, which could contribute to the onset of AD. We suggest that such misregulation is the predominant mechanism of the association we report here.

22859398	Variation in IL10 and other genes involved in the immune response and in oxidation and prostate cancer recurrence. BACKGROUND: To evaluate the association of variation in genes involved in immune response, including IL10, production and detoxification of reactive oxygen species, and repair of oxidative DNA damage with risk of recurrence after surgery for localized prostate cancer. METHODS: We conducted a nested case-control study of men who had a radical prostatectomy in 1993 to 2001. A total of 484 recurrence cases and 484 controls were matched on age, race, and pathologic stage and grade. Germline DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded unaffected lymph nodes. We genotyped candidate single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in IL10, CRP, GPX1, GSR, GSTP1, hOGG1, IL1B, IL1RN, IL6, IL8, MPO, NOS2, NOS3, SOD1, SOD2, SOD3, TLR4, and TNF and tagging SNPs in IL10, CRP, GSR, IL1RN, IL6, NOS2, and NOS3. We used conditional logistic regression to estimate OR and 95% confidence intervals (CI). RESULTS: The minor allele (A) in IL10 rs1800872, known to produce less interleukin-10 (IL-10), was associated with a higher risk of recurrence (OR = 1.76, 95% CI: 1.00-3.10), and the minor allele (G) in rs1800896, known to produce more IL-10, was associated with a lower risk of recurrence (OR = 0.66, 95% CI: 0.48-0.91). We also observed associations for candidate SNPs in CRP, GSTP1, and IL1B. A common IL10 haplotype and 2 common NOS2 haplotypes were associated with recurrence. CONCLUSION: Variation in IL10, CRP, GSTP1, IL1B, and NOS2 was associated with prostate cancer recurrence independent of pathologic prognostic factors. IMPACT: This study supports that genetic variation in immune response and oxidation influence prostate cancer recurrence risk and suggests genetic variation in these pathways may inform prognosis.

27292643	Negative Selection and Chromosome Instability Induced by Mad2 Overexpression Delay Breast Cancer but Facilitate Oncogene-Independent Outgrowth. Chromosome instability (CIN) is associated with poor survival and therapeutic outcome in a number of malignancies. Despite this correlation, CIN can also lead to growth disadvantages. Here, we show that simultaneous overexpression of the mitotic checkpoint protein Mad2 with Kras(G12D) or Her2 in mammary glands of adult mice results in mitotic checkpoint overactivation and a delay in tumor onset. Time-lapse imaging of organotypic cultures and pathologic analysis prior to tumor establishment reveals error-prone mitosis, mitotic arrest, and cell death. Nonetheless, Mad2 expression persists and increases karyotype complexity in Kras tumors. Faced with the selective pressure of oncogene withdrawal, Mad2-positive tumors have a higher frequency of developing persistent subclones that avoid remission and continue to grow.

28512644	Analysis of Serum Cytokines and Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms of SOD1, SOD2, and CAT in Erysipelas Patients. Increased free radical production had been documented in group A (beta-hemolytic) streptococcus infection cases. Comparing 71 erysipelas patients to 55 age-matched healthy individuals, we sought for CAT, SOD1, and SOD2 single polymorphism mutation (SNPs) interactions with erysipelas' predisposition and serum cytokine levels in the acute and recovery phases of erysipelas infection. Whereas female patients had a higher predisposition to erysipelas, male patients were prone to having a facial localization of the infection. The presence of SOD1 G7958, SOD2 T2734, and CAT C262 alleles was linked to erysipelas' predisposition. T and C alleles of SOD2 T2734C individually were linked to patients with bullous and erythematous erysipelas, respectively. G and A alleles of SOD1 G7958A individually were associated with lower limbs and higher body part localizations of the infection, respectively. Serum levels of IL-1beta, CCL11, IL-2Ralpha, CXCL9, TRAIL, PDGF-BB, and CCL4 were associated with symptoms accompanying the infection, while IL-6, IL-9, IL-10, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, G-CSF, and VEGF were associated with predisposition and recurrence of erysipelas. While variations of IL-1beta, IL-7, IL-8, IL-17, CCL5, and HGF were associated with the SOD2 T2734C SNP, variations of PDFG-BB and CCL2 were associated with the CAT C262T SNP.

28851297	An Ag-globin G->A gene polymorphism associated with b(0)39 thalassemia globin gene and high fetal hemoglobin production. BACKGROUND: Increase of the expression of g-globin gene and high production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in b-thalassemia patients is widely accepted as associated with a milder or even asymptomatic disease. The search for HbF-associated polymorphisms (such as the XmnI, BCL11A and MYB polymorphisms) has recently gained great attention, in order to stratify b-thalassemia patients with respect to expectancy of the first transfusion, need for annual intake of blood, response to HbF inducers (the most studied of which is hydroxyurea). METHODS: Ag-globin gene sequencing was performed on genomic DNA isolated from a total of 75 b-thalassemia patients, including 31 b(0)39/b(0)39, 33 b(0)39/b(+)IVSI-110, 9 b(+)IVSI-110/b(+)IVSI-110, one b(0)IVSI-1/b(+)IVSI-6 and one b(0)39/b(+)IVSI-6. RESULTS: The results show that the rs368698783 polymorphism is present in b-thalassemia patients in the 5'UTR sequence (+25) of the Ag-globin gene, known to affect the LYAR (human homologue of mouse Ly-1 antibody reactive clone) binding site 5'-GGTTAT-3'. This Ag(+25 G->A) polymorphism is associated with the Gg-globin-XmnI polymorphism and both are linked with the b(0)39-globin gene, but not with the b(+)IVSI-110-globin gene. In agreement with the expectation that this mutation alters the LYAR binding activity, we found that the Ag(+25 G->A) and Gg-globin-XmnI polymorphisms are associated with high HbF in erythroid precursor cells isolated from b(0)39/b(0)39 thalassemia patients. CONCLUSIONS: As a potential explanation of our findings, we hypothesize that in b-thalassemia the Gg-globin-XmnI/Ag-globin-(G->A) genotype is frequently under genetic linkage with b(0)-thalassemia mutations, but not with the b(+)-thalassemia mutation here studied (i.e. b(+)IVSI-110) and that this genetic combination has been selected within the population of b(0)-thalassemia patients, due to functional association with high HbF. Here we describe the characterization of the rs368698783 (+25 G->A) polymorphism of the Ag-globin gene associated in b(0)39 thalassemia patients with high HbF in erythroid precursor cells.

15122711	POLG mutations associated with Alpers' syndrome and mitochondrial DNA depletion. Alpers' syndrome is a fatal neurogenetic disorder first described more than 70 years ago. It is an autosomal recessive, developmental mitochondrial DNA depletion disorder characterized by deficiency in mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (POLG) catalytic activity, refractory seizures, neurodegeneration, and liver disease. In two unrelated pedigrees of Alpers' syndrome, each affected child was found to carry a homozygous mutation in exon 17 of the POLG locus that led to a Glu873Stop mutation just upstream of the polymerase domain of the protein. In addition, each affected child was heterozygous for the G1681A mutation in exon 7 that led to an Ala467Thr substitution in POLG, within the linker region of the protein.

15817013	People aged over 75 in atrial fibrillation on warfarin: the rate of major hemorrhage and stroke in more than 500 patient-years of follow-up. OBJECTIVES: To determine the incidence of major hemorrhage and stroke in people aged 76 and older with atrial fibrillation on adjusted-dose warfarin who had been recently been admitted to hospital. DESIGN: A retrospective observational cohort study. SETTING: A major healthcare network involving four tertiary hospitals. PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred thirty-five patients aged 76 and older admitted to a major healthcare network between July 1, 2001, and June 30, 2002, with atrial fibrillation on warfarin were enrolled. MEASUREMENTS: Information regarding major bleeding episodes, strokes, and warfarin use was obtained from patients, relatives, primary physicians, and medical records. RESULTS: Two hundred twenty-eight patients (42% men) with a mean age of 81.1 (range 76-94) were included in the analysis. Total follow-up on warfarin was 530 years (mean 28 months). There were 53 major hemorrhages, for an annual rate of 10.0%, including 24 (45.3%) life-threatening and five (9.4%) fatal bleeds. The annual stroke rate after initiation of warfarin was 2.6%. CONCLUSION: The rate of major hemorrhage was high in this old, frail group, but excluding fatalities, resulted in no long-term sequelae, and the stroke rate on warfarin was low, demonstrating how effective warfarin treatment is.

17304550	Disruption of a synaptotagmin (SYT14) associated with neurodevelopmental abnormalities. We report cytogenetic and molecular studies of a de novo, apparently balanced t(1;3)(q32.1;q25.1) identified in a 12-year-old female (designated DGAP128) with cerebral atrophy, macrocephaly seizures, and developmental delay. A combination of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and Southern blot analysis demonstrated disruption of a synaptotagmin gene (SYT14) at the 1q32 breakpoint. Expression of SYT14 in human brain was confirmed using Northern analysis. Because members of the synaptotagmin family of proteins function as sensors that link changes in calcium levels with a variety of biological processes, including neurotransmission and hormone-responsiveness, SYT14 is an intriguing candidate gene for the abnormal development in this child. This is the first known constitutional rearrangement of SYT14, and further systematic genetic analysis and clinical studies of DGAP128 may offer unique insights into the role of SYT14 in neurodevelopment.

18808529	Isoproterenol induces primary loss of dystrophin in rat hearts: correlation with myocardial injury. The mechanism of isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage is unknown, but a mismatch of oxygen supply vs. demand following coronary hypotension and myocardial hyperactivity is the best explanation for the complex morphological alterations observed. Severe alterations in the structural integrity of the sarcolemma of cardiomyocytes have been demonstrated to be caused by isoproterenol. Taking into account that the sarcolemmal integrity is stabilized by the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) that connects actin and laminin in contractile machinery and extracellular matrix and by integrins, this study tests the hypothesis that isoproterenol affects sarcolemmal stability through changes in the DGC and integrins. We found different sensitivity of the DGC and integrin to isoproterenol subcutaneous administration. Immunofluorescent staining revealed that dystrophin is the most sensitive among the structures connecting the actin in the cardiomyocyte cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. The sarcomeric actin dissolution occurred after the reduction or loss of dystrophin. Subsequently, after lysis of myofilaments, gamma-sarcoglycan, beta-dystroglycan, beta1-integrin, and laminin alpha-2 expressions were reduced followed by their breakdown, as epiphenomena of the myocytolytic process. In conclusion, administration of isoproterenol to rats results in primary loss of dystrophin, the most sensitive among the structural proteins that form the DGC that connects the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton in cardiomyocyte. These changes, related to ischaemic injury, explain the severe alterations in the structural integrity of the sarcolemma of cardiomyocytes and hence severe and irreversible injury induced by isoproterenol.

20415560	Vitamin E reduces cardiovascular disease in individuals with diabetes mellitus and the haptoglobin 2-2 genotype. AIMS: Individuals with both diabetes mellitus (DM) and the Haptoglobin (Hp) 2-2 genotype are at increased risk of cardiovascular disease. As the antioxidant function of the Hp 2-2 protein is impaired, we sought to test the pharmacogenomic hypothesis that antioxidant vitamin E supplementation would provide cardiovascular protection to Hp 2-2 DM individuals. MATERIALS & METHODS: We determined the Hp genotype on DM participants from two trials (HOPE and ICARE) and assessed the effect of vitamin E by Hp genotype on their common prespecified outcome, the composite of stroke, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death. Data was analyzed with a fixed-effect model. These results were input into a simulation model, the Evidence Based Medicine Integrator, in order to estimate their long-term implications in a real-world population from Kaiser Permanente (CA, USA). RESULTS: Meta-analysis of the two trials demonstrated a significant overall reduction in the composite end point in Hp 2-2 DM individuals with vitamin E (odds ratio: 0.58; 95% CI: 0.40-0.86; p = 0.006). There was a statistically significant interaction between the Hp genotype and vitamin E on the composite end point. In these trials, Hp typing of 69 DM individuals and treating those with the Hp 2-2 with vitamin E prevented one myocardial infarct, stroke or cardiovascular death. Lifelong administration of vitamin E to Hp 2-2 DM individuals in the Kaiser population would increase their life expectancy by 3 years. CONCLUSION: A pharmacogenomic strategy of screening DM individuals for the Hp genotype and treating those with Hp 2-2 with vitamin E appears to be highly clinically effective.

20523265	Association study of complement factor H, C2, CFB, and C3 and age-related macular degeneration in a Han Chinese population. PURPOSE: Genes in the complement pathway, including complement factor H (CFH), C2/BF, and C3, have been reported to be associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Genetic variants, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), in these genes were geno-typed for a case-control association study in a mainland Han Chinese population. METHODS: One hundred and fifty-eight patients with wet AMD, 80 patients with soft drusen, and 220 matched control subjects were recruited among Han Chinese in mainland China. Seven SNPs in CFH and two SNPs in C2, CFB', and C3 were genotyped using the ABI SNaPshot method. A deletion of 84,682 base pairs covering the CFHR1 and CFHR3 genes was detected by direct polymerase chain reaction and gel electrophoresis. RESULTS: Four SNPs, including rs3753394 (P = 0.0276), rs800292 (P = 0.0266), rs1061170 (P = 0.00514), and rs1329428 (P = 0.0089), in CFH showed a significant association with wet AMD in the cohort of this study. A haplotype containing these four SNPs (CATA) significantly increased protection of wet AMD with a P value of 0.0005 and an odds ratio of 0.29 (95% confidence interval: 0.15-0.60). Unlike in other populations, rs2274700 and rs1410996 did not show a significant association with AMD in the Chinese population of this study. None of the SNPs in CFH showed a significant association with drusen, and none of the SNPs in CFH, C2, CFB, and C3 showed a significant association with either wet AMD or drusen in the cohort of this study. The CFHR1 and CFHR3 deletion was not polymorphic in the Chinese population and was not associated with wet AMD or drusen. CONCLUSION: This study showed that SNPs rs3753394 (P = 0.0276), rs800292 (P = 0.0266), rs1061170 (P = 0.00514), and rs1329428 (P = 0.0089), but not rs7535263, rs1410996, or rs2274700, in CFH were significantly associated with wet AMD in a mainland Han Chinese population. This study showed that CFH was more likely to be AMD susceptibility gene at Chr.1q31 based on the finding that the CFHR1 and CFHR3 deletion was not polymorphic in the cohort of this study, and none of the SNPs that were significantly associated with AMD in a white population in C2, CFB, and C3 genes showed a significant association with AMD.

20949073	Alternative splicing at a NAGNAG acceptor site as a novel phenotype modifier. Approximately 30% of alleles causing genetic disorders generate premature termination codons (PTCs), which are usually associated with severe phenotypes. However, bypassing the deleterious stop codon can lead to a mild disease outcome. Splicing at NAGNAG tandem splice sites has been reported to result in insertion or deletion (indel) of three nucleotides. We identified such a mechanism as the origin of the mild to asymptomatic phenotype observed in cystic fibrosis patients homozygous for the E831X mutation (2623G>T) in the CFTR gene. Analyses performed on nasal epithelial cell mRNA detected three distinct isoforms, a considerably more complex situation than expected for a single nucleotide substitution. Structure-function studies and in silico analyses provided the first experimental evidence of an indel of a stop codon by alternative splicing at a NAGNAG acceptor site. In addition to contributing to proteome plasticity, alternative splicing at a NAGNAG tandem site can thus remove a disease-causing UAG stop codon. This molecular study reveals a naturally occurring mechanism where the effect of either modifier genes or epigenetic factors could be suspected. This finding is of importance for genetic counseling as well as for deciding appropriate therapeutic strategies.

20973483	In vivo characterization of a dual adenosine A2A/A1 receptor antagonist in animal models of Parkinson's disease. The in vivo characterization of a dual adenosine A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist in several animal models of Parkinson's disease is described. Discovery and scale-up syntheses of compound 1 are described in detail, highlighting optimization steps that increased the overall yield of 1 from 10.0% to 30.5%. Compound 1 is a potent A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist in vitro (A(2A) K(i) = 4.1 nM; A(1) K(i) = 17.0 nM) that has excellent activity, after oral administration, across a number of animal models of Parkinson's disease including mouse and rat models of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, mouse model of reserpine-induced akinesia, rat 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of drug-induced rotation, and MPTP-treated non-human primate model.

21533187	Loss-of-function mutations in PTPN11 cause metachondromatosis, but not Ollier disease or Maffucci syndrome. Metachondromatosis (MC) is a rare, autosomal dominant, incompletely penetrant combined exostosis and enchondromatosis tumor syndrome. MC is clinically distinct from other multiple exostosis or multiple enchondromatosis syndromes and is unlinked to EXT1 and EXT2, the genes responsible for autosomal dominant multiple osteochondromas (MO). To identify a gene for MC, we performed linkage analysis with high-density SNP arrays in a single family, used a targeted array to capture exons and promoter sequences from the linked interval in 16 participants from 11 MC families, and sequenced the captured DNA using high-throughput parallel sequencing technologies. DNA capture and parallel sequencing identified heterozygous putative loss-of-function mutations in PTPN11 in 4 of the 11 families. Sanger sequence analysis of PTPN11 coding regions in a total of 17 MC families identified mutations in 10 of them (5 frameshift, 2 nonsense, and 3 splice-site mutations). Copy number analysis of sequencing reads from a second targeted capture that included the entire PTPN11 gene identified an additional family with a 15 kb deletion spanning exon 7 of PTPN11. Microdissected MC lesions from two patients with PTPN11 mutations demonstrated loss-of-heterozygosity for the wild-type allele. We next sequenced PTPN11 in DNA samples from 54 patients with the multiple enchondromatosis disorders Ollier disease or Maffucci syndrome, but found no coding sequence PTPN11 mutations. We conclude that heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in PTPN11 are a frequent cause of MC, that lesions in patients with MC appear to arise following a "second hit," that MC may be locus heterogeneous since 1 familial and 5 sporadically occurring cases lacked obvious disease-causing PTPN11 mutations, and that PTPN11 mutations are not a common cause of Ollier disease or Maffucci syndrome.

23952588	Risk factors and predictors of levodopa-induced dyskinesia among multiethnic Malaysians with Parkinson's disease. Chronic pulsatile levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to the development of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. We studied the prevalence and predictors of levodopa-induced dyskinesia among multiethnic Malaysian patients with PD. METHODS: This is a cross-sectional study involving 95 patients with PD on uninterrupted levodopa therapy for at least 6 months. The instrument used was the UPDRS questionnaires. The predictors of dyskinesia were determined using multivariate logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: The mean age was 65.6 + 8.5 years. The mean onset age was 58.5 + 9.8 years. The median disease duration was 6 (7) years. Dyskinesia was present in 44% (n = 42) with median levodopa therapy of 3 years. There were 64.3% Chinese, 31% Malays, and 3.7% Indians and other ethnic groups. Eighty-one percent of patients with dyskinesia had clinical fluctuations. Patients with dyskinesia had lower onset age ( p < 0.001), longer duration of levodopa therapy ( p < 0.001), longer disease duration ( p < 0.001), higher total daily levodopa dose ( p < 0.001), and higher total UPDRS scores ( p = 0.005) than patients without dyskinesia. The three significant predictors of dyskinesia were duration of levodopa therapy, onset age, and total daily levodopa dose. CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in our patients was 44%. The most significant predictors were duration of levodopa therapy, total daily levodopa dose, and onset age.

25305591	VPAC2 (vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor type 2) receptor deficient mice develop exacerbated experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis with increased Th1/Th17 and reduced Th2/Treg responses. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) are two structurally-related neuropeptides with widespread expression in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Although these peptides have been repeatedly shown to exert potent anti-inflammatory actions when administered in animal models of inflammatory disease, mice deficient in VIP and PACAP were recently shown to exhibit different phenotypes (ameliorated and exacerbated, respectively) in response to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Therefore, elucidating what are the specific immunoregulatory roles played by each of their receptor subtypes (VPAC1, VPAC2, and PAC1) is critical. In this study, we found that mice with a genetic deletion of VIPR2, encoding the VPAC2 receptor, exhibited exacerbated (MOG35-55)-induced EAE compared to wild type mice, characterized by enhanced clinical and histopathological features, increased proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IFN-gamma (Th1), and IL-17 (Th17)) and reduced anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, TGFbeta, and IL-4 (Th2)) in the CNS and lymph nodes. Moreover, the abundance and proliferative index of lymph node, thymus and CNS CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) Tregs were strikingly reduced in VPAC2-deficient mice with EAE. Finally, the in vitro suppressive activity of lymph node and splenic Tregs from VPAC2-deficient mice was impaired. Overall, our results demonstrate critical protective roles for PACAP and the VPAC2 receptor against autoimmunity, promoting the expansion and maintenance of the Treg pool. 

27643404	Alcohol consumption and prostate cancer incidence and progression: A Mendelian randomisation study. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men in developed countries, and is a target for risk reduction strategies. The effects of alcohol consumption on prostate cancer incidence and survival remain unclear, potentially due to methodological limitations of observational studies. In this study, we investigated the associations of genetic variants in alcohol-metabolising genes with prostate cancer incidence and survival. We analysed data from 23,868 men with prostate cancer and 23,051 controls from 25 studies within the international PRACTICAL Consortium. Study-specific associations of 68 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 8 alcohol-metabolising genes (Alcohol Dehydrogenases (ADHs) and Aldehyde Dehydrogenases (ALDHs)) with prostate cancer diagnosis and prostate cancer-specific mortality, by grade, were assessed using logistic and Cox regression models, respectively. The data across the 25 studies were meta-analysed using fixed-effect and random-effects models. We found little evidence that variants in alcohol metabolising genes were associated with prostate cancer diagnosis. Four variants in two genes exceeded the multiple testing threshold for associations with prostate cancer mortality in fixed-effect meta-analyses. SNPs within ALDH1A2 associated with prostate cancer mortality were rs1441817 (fixed effects hazard ratio, HRfixed  = 0.78; 95% confidence interval (95%CI):0.66,0.91; p values = 0.002); rs12910509, HRfixed  = 0.76; 95%CI:0.64,0.91; p values = 0.003); and rs8041922 (HRfixed  = 0.76; 95%CI:0.64,0.91; p values = 0.002). These SNPs were in linkage disequilibrium with each other. In ALDH1B1, rs10973794 (HRfixed  = 1.43; 95%CI:1.14,1.79; p values = 0.002) was associated with prostate cancer mortality in men with low-grade prostate cancer. These results suggest that alcohol consumption is unlikely to affect prostate cancer incidence, but it may influence disease progression.

15686794	Acute low back pain during intravenous administration of amiodarone: a report of two cases. Amiodarone represents an effective antiarrhythmic drug for cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) and maintenance of sinus rhythm. We briefly describe two patients suffering from recent-onset atrial fibrillation, who experienced an acute devastating low back pain a few minutes after initiation of intravenous amiodarone loading. Notably, this side effect has not been ever reported in the medical literature. Clinicians should be aware of this reaction since prompt termination of parenteral administration leads to complete resolution.

15755837	Common dihydrofolate reductase 19-base pair deletion allele: a novel risk factor for preterm delivery. BACKGROUND: Folate is critical for cell division, a major feature of in utero development. Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is required to convert the folic acid used in supplements and for food fortification and the dihydrofolate produced by thymidylate synthase during DNA synthesis to the reduced folate forms used by the cell. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine whether a common, recently discovered deletion polymorphism in the DHFR gene is a risk factor for preterm delivery or low birth weight. DESIGN: We studied 324 pregnant women from Camden, NJ. Folate intake was computed from folate supplement intake plus the mean of two 24-h recalls completed during the course of pregnancy. Genomic DNA was extracted from the women's leukocytes and genotyped. RESULTS: Women with a deletion allele had a significantly greater risk of preterm delivery [adjusted odds ratio (AOR): 3.0; 95% CI: 1.0, 8.8; P < 0.05] than did those without a deletion allele. Women with both a DHFR deletion allele and low folate intake (<400 microg/d from diet plus supplements) had a significantly greater risk of preterm delivery (AOR: 5.5; 95% CI: 1.5, 20.4; P = 0.01) and a significantly greater risk of having an infant with a low birth weight (AOR: 8.3; 95% CI: 1.8, 38.6; P = 0.01) than did women without a deletion allele and with a folate intake >/=400 microg/d. CONCLUSIONS: The DHFR 19-base pair deletion allele may be a risk factor for preterm delivery. In the presence of low dietary folate, the allele may also be a risk factor for low birth weight. This may be a gene-environment interaction.

15851735	Mild glycine encephalopathy (NKH) in a large kindred due to a silent exonic GLDC splice mutation. BACKGROUND: Classic neonatal-onset glycine encephalopathy (GE) is devastating and life threatening. Milder, later onset variants have been reported but were usually sporadic and incompletely defined. OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical and biochemical phenotype and molecular basis of mild GE in nine children from a consanguineous Israeli Bedouin kindred. METHODS: Genomic DNA was screened for GLDC, AMT, and GCSH gene mutations. GLDC expression in lymphoblasts was studied by Northern blot and reverse transcriptase PCR analysis. RESULTS: Clinical features included hypotonia, abnormal movements, convulsions, and moderate mental retardation with relative sparing of gross motor function, activities of daily living skills, and receptive language. Aggression and irritability were prominent. CSF-to-plasma glycine ratio was mildly to moderately elevated. All nine patients were homozygous and their parents heterozygous for a novel, translationally silent GLDC exon 22 transversion c.2607C>A. Lymphoblast GLDC mRNA levels were considerably reduced. Three aberrantly spliced cDNA species were identified: exon 22 and exon 22 to 23 skipping, and insertion of an 87-base pair cryptic exon. Homozygosity for c.2607C>A was also identified in an unrelated but haplotypically identical patient with an unusually favorable outcome despite severe neonatal-onset GE. Mutation analysis enabled prenatal diagnosis of three unaffected and one affected pregnancies. CONCLUSIONS: The mutation in this kindred led to missplicing and reduced GLDC (glycine decarboxylase) expression. The 4 to 6% of normally spliced GLDC mRNA in the patients may account for their relatively favorable clinical outcome compared with patients with classic glycine encephalopathy.

18262054	A family with two consecutive nonsense mutations in BMPR1A causing juvenile polyposis. We describe a novel germline mutation of BMPR1A in a family with juvenile polyposis and colon cancer. This mutation consists of two consecutive substitutions (735-6 TG>AT) that cause two nonsense mutations (Y245X, G246X), inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, on one parental chromosome. This mutation caused protein truncation, and represents a novel case of consecutive nonsense mutations in human disease.

18470323	Anticipation in familial lattice corneal dystrophy type I with R124C mutation in the TGFBI (BIGH3) gene. PURPOSE: To report the clinical, ophthalmic, and genetic characteristics for lattice corneal dystrophy type I (LCDI) in a Chilean family. METHODS: Six affected family members were examined clinically including visual acuity, color cornea photography, applanation tonography, and fundoscopy. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral leukocytes from six affected and three unaffected members of a family with lattice corneal dystrophy type I. Exon 4 of the transforming growth factor-induced gene (TGFBI) was screened for the most frequent mutation, R124C, in the proband by sequencing. We also designed a rapid polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method to analyze the same mutation, amplifying exon 4 and digesting with PstI restriction enzyme. Using this strategy, we analyzed the mutation in six affected and three healthy family members. RESULTS: Three generations of family members were positively diagnosed with lattice corneal dystrophy. Six participants demonstrated LCD1 in both eyes, most of whom were symmetric. Age at onset of symptoms was variable (3-42 years old). Moreover, in this family, the age of onset of the disease decreased in succeeding generations, which could be interpreted as anticipation. Visual acuity varied from 1.0 to 0.13. Two patients, ages 69 and 44 years old, demonstrated a degree of severity "Bad" according to best-corrected vision and corneal commitment. The exon 4 sequence of TGFBI of the proband exhibits the heterozygous single-nucleotide mutation, C417T, leading to amino acid substitution (R124C) in the encoded TGF-induced protein. Using PCR-RFLP, we confirmed the heterozygous mutation in six affected family members and excluded it in three healthy members. CONCLUSIONS: The R124C mutation in TGFBI cosegregated with LCD type I in the investigated family. This is the first report of a molecular analysis of LCD type I in Chilean patients. The early onset affected persons in the fourth generation raises the possibility of anticipation.

18772193	Novel suppressors of alpha-synuclein toxicity identified using yeast. The mechanism by which the Parkinson's disease-related protein alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) causes neurodegeneration has not been elucidated. To determine the genes that protect cells from alpha-syn, we used a genetic screen to identify suppressors of the super sensitivity of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing alpha-syn to killing by hydrogen peroxide. Forty genes in ubiquitin-dependent protein catabolism, protein biosynthesis, vesicle trafficking and the response to stress were identified. Five of the forty genes--ENT3, IDP3, JEM1, ARG2 and HSP82--ranked highest in their ability to block alpha-syn-induced reactive oxygen species accumulation, and these five genes were characterized in more detail. The deletion of any of these five genes enhanced the toxicity of alpha-syn as judged by growth defects compared with wild-type cells expressing alpha-syn, which indicates that these genes protect cells from alpha-syn. Strikingly, four of the five genes are specific for alpha-syn in that they fail to protect cells from the toxicity of the two inherited mutants A30P or A53T. This finding suggests that alpha-syn causes toxicity to cells through a different pathway than these two inherited mutants. Lastly, overexpression of Ent3p, which is a clathrin adapter protein involved in protein transport between the Golgi and the vacuole, causes alpha-syn to redistribute from the plasma membrane into cytoplasmic vesicular structures. Our interpretation is that Ent3p mediates the transport of alpha-syn to the vacuole for proteolytic degradation. A similar clathrin adaptor protein, epsinR, exists in humans.

19101703	Study of a Taiwanese family with oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. BACKGROUND: Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a late onset autosomal dominant muscle disorder. OPMD is caused by a short trinucleotide repeat expansion encoding an expanded polyalanine tract in the polyadenylate binding-protein nuclear 1 (PABPN1) gene. We identified and characterized a PABPN1 mutation in a Taiwanese family with OPMD. METHODS: The phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of all subjects were evaluated in a Taiwanese OPMD family. Genetic alterations in the PABPN1 gene were identified using PCR and DNA sequencing. RESULTS: Ten subjects with OPMD (6 symptomatic and 4 asymptomatic) within the Taiwanese family carried a novel mutation in the PABPN1 gene. The normal (GCG)6(GCA)3GCG sequence was replaced by (GCG)6(GCA)(GCG)4(GCA)3GCG due to an insertion of (GCG)4GCA into the normal allele in the Taiwanese OPMD subjects. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to a single GCG expansion in most of OPMD patients in the literature, an insertion of (GCG)4GCA in the PABPN1 gene was found in the Taiwanese OPMD subjects. The identification of this mutation appears to support the molecular mechanism of unequal cross-over of two PABPN1 alleles.

19536134	TAK1 is an essential regulator of BMP signalling in cartilage. TGFbeta activated kinase 1 (TAK1), a member of the MAPKKK family, controls diverse functions ranging from innate and adaptive immune system activation to vascular development and apoptosis. To analyse the in vivo function of TAK1 in cartilage, we generated mice with a conditional deletion of Tak1 driven by the collagen 2 promoter. Tak1(col2) mice displayed severe chondrodysplasia with runting, impaired formation of secondary centres of ossification, and joint abnormalities including elbow dislocation and tarsal fusion. This phenotype resembled that of bone morphogenetic protein receptor (BMPR)1 and Gdf5-deficient mice. BMPR signalling was markedly impaired in TAK1-deficient chondrocytes as evidenced by reduced expression of known BMP target genes as well as reduced phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8 and p38/Jnk/Erk MAP kinases. TAK1 mediates Smad1 phosphorylation at C-terminal serine residues. These findings provide the first in vivo evidence in a mammalian system that TAK1 is required for BMP signalling and functions as an upstream activating kinase for Smad1/5/8 in addition to its known role in regulating MAP kinase pathways. Our experiments reveal an essential role for TAK1 in the morphogenesis, growth, and maintenance of cartilage.

20428796	Effect of the abrogation of TGF-beta1 by antisense oligonucleotides on the expression of TGF-beta-isoforms and their receptors I and II in isolated fibroblasts from keloid scars. Disequilibrium of dermal wound repair can result in continued accumulation of ECM and excessive scar formation. In susceptible genetically predisposed individuals, keloid formation can be observed. Keloid disease represents a benign dermal fibroproliferative tumor that is unique to humans. TGF-beta is known to play a key role in the pathogenesis of this disease which is still not fully understood. The isoforms TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta2 have profibrotic properties, whereas TGF-beta3 may have antifibrotic functions. TGF-beta exerts its influence by binding to type I and type II TGF-beta receptors, thereby forming a complex and activating specific downstream effector molecules. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of TGF-beta1 targeting by antisense oligonucleotides on the RNA synthesis and protein expression of TGF-beta isoforms and their receptors in keloid-derived fibroblasts. In tissue samples with normal fibroblasts (NFs) serving as control samples, expression of TGF-beta1 and -beta2 was decreased when compared to keloid fibroblasts (KFs), while expression of TGF-beta3 and of TGF-betaRII was significantly higher in NFs. In the ELISA assay, abrogation of TGF-beta1 led to a significant decrease in TGF-beta1 and -beta2 (p<0.05). Expression of TGF-beta2 mRNA was reduced. Expression of TGF-beta3 mRNA revealed contrary patterns in KFs from different patients while expression of TGF-betaRI was found to be equal during the measurement period. TGF-betaRII mRNA expression was increased after 48 and 72 h respectively. There is growing evidence for a regulatory mechanism between TGF-beta1 and its receptors. Our findings support this theory by suggesting interrelations between the different TGF-beta isoforms and their receptors. Abnormal response of KFs to TGF-betamight reflect a modification in the regulatory pathway that occurs at the receptor level or during intracellular trans-duction. Improving the understanding of TGF-beta in keloid disease could lead to the development of clinically useful therapeutic modalities for treatment of keloid disease or even allow identification of preventive strategies.

21238926	Brat promotes stem cell differentiation via control of a bistable switch that restricts BMP signaling. Drosophila ovarian germline stem cells (GSCs) are maintained by Dpp signaling and the Pumilio (Pum) and Nanos (Nos) translational repressors. Upon division, Dpp signaling is extinguished, and Nos is downregulated in one daughter cell, causing it to switch to a differentiating cystoblast (CB). However, downstream effectors of Pum-Nos remain unknown, and how CBs lose their responsiveness to Dpp is unclear. Here, we identify Brain Tumor (Brat) as a potent differentiation factor and target of Pum-Nos regulation. Brat is excluded from GSCs by Pum-Nos but functions with Pum in CBs to translationally repress distinct targets, including the Mad and dMyc mRNAs. Regulation of both targets simultaneously lowers cellular responsiveness to Dpp signaling, forcing the cell to become refractory to the self-renewal signal. Mathematical modeling elucidates bistability of cell fate in the Brat-mediated system, revealing how autoregulation of GSC number can arise from Brat coupling extracellular Dpp regulation to intracellular interpretation.

21904390	Two novel mutations of the PAX6 gene causing different phenotype in a cohort of Chinese patients. PURPOSE: Aniridia (AN) is a rare congenital panocular disorder caused by the mutations of the paired box homeotic gene 6(PAX6) gene. The PAX6 gene is also involved in other anterior segment malformations including Peters anomaly. We studied the PAX6 gene mutations in a cohort of affected individuals with different clinical phenotype including AN, coloboma of iris and choroid, or anterior segment malformations. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six unrelated families and 10 sporadic patients were examined clinically. After informed consent was obtained, genomic DNA was extracted from the venous blood of all participants. Mutation screening of all exons of the PAX6 gene was performed by direct sequencing of PCR-amplified DNA fragments. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) was performed to detect large deletions. RESULTS: By clinical examination, the patients and the pedigrees were divided into the following three groups: AN, coloboma of iris and choroids, and the anterior segment malformations including peters anomaly. Sequencing of the PAX6 gene, three intragenic mutations including a novel heterozygous splicing-site mutations c.357-3C>G (p.Ser119fsX) were identified in the patients of the AN group. A novel missense mutation c.643T>C (p.S216P) was detected in the anterior segment malformation group. The mutation p.S216P located in the homeodomain region of the PAX6 caused the phenotype of Peters anomaly in family A6 with different expressing. Through MLPA analysis, a large deletion including the whole PAX6 gene and DKFZ p686k1684 gene was detected in one sporadic patient from the AN group. Neither intragenic mutation nor large deletion was identified in the group with coloboma of iris and choroid. CONCLUSION: Our findings further confirmed that different kind of mutations might cause different ocular phenotype, and clearly clinical phenotype classification might increase the mutation detection rate of the PAX6 gene.

24709919	Effects of ginsenosides on opioid-induced hyperalgesia in mice. Opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) is characterized by nociceptive sensitization caused by the cessation of chronic opioid use. OIH can limit the clinical use of opioid analgesics and complicate withdrawal from opioid addiction. In this study, we investigated the effects of Re, Rg1, and Rb1 ginsenosides, the bioactive components of ginseng, on OIH. OIH was achieved in mice after subcutaneous administration of morphine for 7 consecutive days three times per day. During withdrawal (days 8 and 9), these mice were administered Re, Rg1, or Rb1 intragastrically two times per day. On the test day (day 10), mice were subjected to the thermal sensitivity test and the acetic acid-induced writhing test. Re (300 mg/kg) inhibited OIH in both the thermal sensitivity test and the acetic acid-induced writhing test. However, the Rg1 and Rb1 ginsenosides failed to prevent OIH in either test. Furthermore, Rg1 showed a tendency to aggravate OIH in the acetic acid-induced writhing test. Our data suggested that the ginsenoside Re, but not Rg1 or Rb1, may contribute toward reversal of OIH.

27630165	Long-Lived CD4+IFN-g+ T Cells rather than Short-Lived CD4+IFN-g+IL-10+ T Cells Initiate Rapid IL-10 Production To Suppress Anamnestic T Cell Responses during Secondary Malaria Infection. CD4(+) T cells that produce IFN-g are the source of host-protective IL-10 during primary infection with a number of different pathogens, including Plasmodium spp. The fate of these CD4(+)IFN-g(+)IL-10(+) T cells following clearance of primary infection and their subsequent influence on the course of repeated infections is, however, presently unknown. In this study, utilizing IFN-g-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and IL-10-GFP dual reporter mice, we show that primary malaria infection-induced CD4(+)YFP(+)GFP(+) T cells have limited memory potential, do not stably express IL-10, and are disproportionately lost from the Ag-experienced CD4(+) T cell memory population during the maintenance phase postinfection. CD4(+)YFP(+)GFP(+) T cells generally exhibited a short-lived effector rather than effector memory T cell phenotype postinfection and expressed high levels of PD-1, Lag-3, and TIGIT, indicative of cellular exhaustion. Consistently, the surviving CD4(+)YFP(+)GFP(+) T cell-derived cells were unresponsive and failed to proliferate during the early phase of secondary infection. In contrast, CD4(+)YFP(+)GFP(-) T cell-derived cells expanded rapidly and upregulated IL-10 expression during secondary infection. Correspondingly, CD4(+) T cells were the major producers within an accelerated and amplified IL-10 response during the early stage of secondary malaria infection. Notably, IL-10 exerted quantitatively stronger regulatory effects on innate and CD4(+) T cell responses during primary and secondary infections, respectively. The results in this study significantly improve our understanding of the durability of IL-10-producing CD4(+) T cells postinfection and provide information on how IL-10 may contribute to optimized parasite control and prevention of immune-mediated pathology during repeated malaria infections.

28260077	Atorvastatin protects against contrast-induced nephropathy via anti-apoptosis by the upregulation of Hsp27 in vivo and in vitro. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is an iatrogenic acute renal failure occurring following the intravascular injection of iodinated radiographic contrast medium. However, the regulatory mechanisms for CIN remain to be fully elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate whether atorvastatin protects against CIN via anti-apoptotic effects by the upregulation of Hsp27 in vivo and in vitro. To determine whether atorvastatin attenuated CIN, the inflammatory response and apoptosis in vivo and in vitro, a rat model of iopamidol-induced CIN was used, and human embryonic proximal tubule (HK2) cell damage was assessed. The rats were assigned into four groups (n=10 per group), as follows: Control rats; rats+atorvastatin; rats + iopamidol; rats+iopamidol+atorvastatin. In vitro, the HK2 cells were treated with iopamidol in the presence or absence of atorvastatin, heat shock protein (Hsp)27 small interfering (si)RNA or pcDNA3.1-Hsp27. The renal tissues were examined histopathologically and collected for western blot analysis. The results showed that atorvastatin ameliorated the apoptosis and deterioration of renal function (P<0.05). Furthermore, atorvastatin reduced the iopamidol-induced activity of B cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2)-associated X protein (Bax)/caspase-3 and increased the expression of Bcl-2 in vivo and in vitro. Notably, following treatment with Hsp27 siRNA or pcDNA3.1-Hsp27, it was found that iopamidol enhanced or weakened the upregulation of Bax/caspase-3 and downregulation of Bcl-2 in the HK2 cells, respectively. The results of the present study suggested that atorvastatin protected against contrast-induced renal tubular cell apoptosis through the upregulation of Hsp27 in vivo and in vitro.

28346429	Deletion of endothelial cell-specific liver kinase B1 increases angiogenesis and tumor growth via vascular endothelial growth factor. Liver kinase B1 (LKB1) is a serine/threonine protein kinase ubiquitously expressed in mammalian cells. It was first identified in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome as a tumor suppressor gene. Whether endothelial LKB1 regulates angiogenesis and tumor growth is unknown. In this study, we generated endothelial cell-specific LKB1-knockout (LKB1(endo-/-)) mice by crossbreeding vascular endothelial-cadherin-Cre mice with LKB1(flox/flox) mice. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) level was highly co-stained in endothelial cells but not in macrophages in LKB1(endo-/-) mice. Consistently, LKB1(endo-/-) mouse tissues including the lung, skin, kidney and liver showed increased vascular permeability. Tumors implanted in LKB1(endo-/-) mice but not macrophage-specific LKB1-knockout mice grew faster and showed enhanced vascular permeability and increased angiogenesis as compared with those implanted in wild-type mice. Injection of VEGF-neutralizing antibody but not the isotype-matched control antibody decreased endothelial-cell angiogenesis and tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, LKB1 deletion enhanced mouse retinal and cell angiogenesis, and knockdown of VEGF by small-interfering RNA decreased endothelial cell proliferation and migration. Re-expression of LKB1 or knockdown of VEGF receptor 2 decreased the overproliferation and -migration observed in LKB1(endo-/-) cells. Mechanistically, LKB1 could bind to the VEGF transcription factor, specificity protein 1 (Sp1), which then inhibited the binding of Sp1 to the VEGF promoter to reduce VEGF expression. Endothelial LKB1 may regulate endothelial angiogenesis and tumor growth by modulating Sp1-mediated VEGF expression.

15241482	Paraoxonase 1 polymorphisms and survival. The antioxidant enzyme paraoxonase 1 (PON1) has previously been suggested to confer protection against coronary heart disease (CHD), one of the main causes of death in the Western world. Two coding polymorphisms, 55M/L and 192Q/R, and a promoter variant, -107C/T, has been extensively studied with respect to susceptibility to CHD. In this study, we have investigated the impact of these three polymorphisms on mortality using a sample of 1932 Danish individuals aged 47-93 years, previously used in gene-longevity studies. A cross-sectional study comparing the genotype distribution of the three polymorphisms separately as well as the haplotype distribution in different age groups did not reveal any difference. However, a longitudinal follow-up study on survival in the same sample indicated that 192RR homozygotes have a poorer survival compared to QQ homozygotes (hazard rate: 1.38, P = 0.04). We hereafter used an independent sample of 541 Danish individuals from the oldest cohort and confirmed the initial findings (hazard rate: 1.38, P = 0.09). In both samples, the effect was most pronounced in women. Using self-reported data on ischemic heart disease to evaluate the impact of the PON 192Q/R polymorphism on susceptibility to CHD, we found only a nonsignificant trend of 192RR homozygosity in women being a risk factor. Our results thus indicates that PON1 192RR homozygosity is associated with increased mortality in women in the second half of life and that this increased mortality is possibly related to CHD severity and survival after CHD rather than susceptibility to development of CHD.

17273972	Human TBX1 missense mutations cause gain of function resulting in the same phenotype as 22q11.2 deletions. Deletion 22q11.2 syndrome is the most frequent known microdeletion syndrome and is associated with a highly variable phenotype, including DiGeorge and Shprintzen (velocardiofacial) syndromes. Although haploinsufficiency of the T-box transcription factor gene TBX1 is thought to cause the phenotype, to date, only four different point mutations in TBX1 have been reported in association with six of the major features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. Although, for the two truncating mutations, loss of function was previously shown, the pathomechanism of the missense mutations remains unknown. We report a novel heterozygous missense mutation, H194Q, in a familial case of Shprintzen syndrome and show that this and the two previously reported missense mutations result in gain of function, possibly through stabilization of the protein dimer DNA complex. We therefore conclude that TBX1 gain-of-function mutations can result in the same phenotypic spectrum as haploinsufficiency caused by loss-of-function mutations or deletions.

17959715	Polymorphic MLH1 and risk of cancer after methylating chemotherapy for Hodgkin lymphoma. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Methylating agents are effective chemotherapy agents for Hodgkin lymphoma, but are associated with the development of second primary cancers. Cytotoxicity of methylating agents is mediated primarily by the DNA mismatch repair (MMR) system. Loss of MLH1, a major component of DNA MMR, results in tolerance to the cytotoxic effects of methylating agents and persistence of mutagenised cells at high risk of malignant transformation. We hypothesised that a common substitution in the basal promoter of MLH1 (position -93, rs1800734) modifies the risk of cancer after methylating chemotherapy. METHODS: 133 patients who developed cancer following chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy (n = 133), 420 patients diagnosed with de novo myeloid leukaemia, 242 patients diagnosed with primary Hodgkin lymphoma, and 1177 healthy controls were genotyped for the MLH1 -93 polymorphism by allelic discrimination polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism assay. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals for cancer risk by MLH1 -93 polymorphism status, and stratified by previous exposure to methylating chemotherapy, were calculated using unconditional logistic regression. RESULTS: Carrier frequency of the MLH1 -93 variant was higher in patients who developed therapy related acute myeloid leukaemia (t-AML) (75.0%, n = 12) or breast cancer (53.3%. n = 15) after methylating chemotherapy for Hodgkin lymphoma compared to patients without previous methylating exposure (t-AML, 30.4%, n = 69; breast cancer patients, 27.2%, n = 22). The MLH1 -93 variant allele was also over-represented in t-AML cases when compared to de novo AML cases (36.9%, n = 420) and healthy controls (36.3%, n = 952), and was associated with a significantly increased risk of developing t-AML (odds ratio 5.31, 95% confidence interval 1.40 to 20.15), but only in patients previously treated with a methylating agent. CONCLUSIONS: These data support the hypothesis that the common polymorphism at position -93 in the core promoter of MLH1 defines a risk allele for the development of cancer after methylating chemotherapy for Hodgkin lymphoma. However, replication of this finding in larger studies is suggested.

18050247	Identification of novel susceptibility genes in childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus using a uniquely designed candidate gene pathway platform. OBJECTIVE: Childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presents a unique subgroup of patients for genetic study. The present study was undertaken to identify susceptibility genes contributing to SLE, using a novel candidate gene pathway microarray platform to investigate gene expression in patients with childhood-onset SLE and both of their parents. METHODS: Utilizing bioinformatic tools, a platform of 9,412 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 1,204 genes was designed and validated. Molecular inversion probes and high-throughput SNP technologies were used for assay development. Seven hundred fifty three subjects, corresponding to 251 full trios of childhood-onset SLE families, were genotyped and analyzed using transmission disequilibrium testing (TDT) and multitest corrections. RESULTS: Family-based TDT showed a significant association of SLE with a N673S polymorphism in the P-selectin gene (SELP) (P = 5.74 x 10(-6)) and a C203S polymorphism in the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 gene (IRAK1) (P = 9.58 x 10(-6)). These 2 SNPs had a false discovery rate for multitest correction of <0.05, and therefore a >95% probability of being considered as proven. Furthermore, 7 additional SNPs showed q values of <0.5, suggesting association with SLE and providing a direction for followup studies. These additional genes notably included TNFRSF6 (Fas) and IRF5, supporting previous findings of their association with SLE pathogenesis. CONCLUSION: SELP and IRAK1 were identified as novel SLE-associated genes with a high degree of significance, suggesting new directions in understanding the pathogenesis of SLE. The overall design and results of this study demonstrate that the candidate gene pathway microarray platform used provides a novel and powerful approach that is generally applicable in identifying genetic foundations of complex diseases.

18541230	Protective effects of antithrombin on puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis in rats. We investigated the effects of antithrombin, a plasma inhibitor of coagulation factors, in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis, which is an experimental model of human nephrotic syndrome. Antithrombin (50 or 500 IU/kg/i.v.) was administered to rats once a day for 10 days immediately after the injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (50 mg/kg/i.v.). Treatment with antithrombin attenuated the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced hematological abnormalities. Puromycin aminonucleoside-induced renal dysfunction and hyperlipidemia were also suppressed. Histopathological examination revealed severe renal damage such as proteinaceous casts in tubuli and tubular expansion in the kidney of control rats, while an improvement of the damage was seen in antithrombin-treated rats. In addition, antithrombin treatment markedly suppressed puromycin aminonucleoside-induced apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells. Furthermore, puromycin aminonucleoside-induced increases in renal cytokine content were also decreased. These findings suggest that thrombin plays an important role in the pathogenesis of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome. Treatment with antithrombin may be clinically effective in patients with nephrotic syndrome.

19048115	Neurofibromin 1 (NF1) defects are common in human ovarian serous carcinomas and co-occur with TP53 mutations. Ovarian serous carcinoma (OSC) is the most common and lethal histologic type of ovarian epithelial malignancy. Mutations of TP53 and dysfunction of the Brca1 and/or Brca2 tumor-suppressor proteins have been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of a large fraction of OSCs, but frequent somatic mutations in other well-established tumor-suppressor genes have not been identified. Using a genome-wide screen of DNA copy number alterations in 36 primary OSCs, we identified two tumors with apparent homozygous deletions of the NF1 gene. Subsequently, 18 ovarian carcinoma-derived cell lines and 41 primary OSCs were evaluated for NF1 alterations. Markedly reduced or absent expression of Nf1 protein was observed in 6 of the 18 cell lines, and using the protein truncation test and sequencing of cDNA and genomic DNA, NF1 mutations resulting in deletion of exons and/or aberrant splicing of NF1 transcripts were detected in 5 of the 6 cell lines with loss of NF1 expression. Similarly, NF1 alterations including homozygous deletions and splicing mutations were identified in 9 (22%) of 41 primary OSCs. As expected, tumors and cell lines with NF1 defects lacked mutations in KRAS or BRAF but showed Ras pathway activation based on immunohistochemical detection of phosphorylated MAPK (primary tumors) or increased levels of GTP-bound Ras (cell lines). The TP53 tumor-suppressor gene was mutated in all OSCs with documented NF1 mutation, suggesting that the pathways regulated by these two tumor-suppressor proteins often cooperate in the development of ovarian carcinomas with serous differentiation.

19463742	Melanocortin-4 receptor activation inhibits c-Jun N-terminal kinase activity and promotes insulin signaling. The melanocortin system is crucial to regulation of energy homeostasis. The melanocortin receptor type 4 (MC4R) modulates insulin signaling via effects on c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). The melanocortin agonist NDP-MSH dose-dependently inhibited JNK activity in HEK293 cells stably expressing the human MC4R; effects were reversed by melanocortin receptor antagonist. NDP-MSH time- and dose-dependently inhibited IRS-1(ser307) phosphorylation, effects also reversed by a specific melanocortin receptor antagonist. NDP-MSH augmented insulin-stimulated AKT phosphorylation in vitro. The melanocortin agonist melanotan II increased insulin-stimulated AKT phosphorylation in the rat hypothalamus in vivo. NDP-MSH increased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in hypothalamic GT1-1 cells. The current study shows that the melanocortinergic system interacts with insulin signaling via novel effects on JNK activity.

24588023	The association between tranexamic acid and convulsive seizures after cardiac surgery: a multivariate analysis in 11 529 patients. Because of a lack of contemporary data regarding seizures after cardiac surgery, we undertook a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data from 11 529 patients in whom cardiopulmonary bypass was used from January 2004 to December 2010. A convulsive seizure was defined as a transient episode of disturbed brain function characterised by abnormal involuntary motor movements. Multivariate regression analysis was performed to identify independent predictors of postoperative seizures. A total of 100 (0.9%) patients developed postoperative convulsive seizures. Generalised and focal seizures were identified in 68 and 32 patients, respectively. The median (IQR [range]) time after surgery when the seizure occurred was 7 (6-12 [1-216]) h and 8 (6-11 [4-18]) h, respectively. Epileptiform findings on electroencephalography were seen in 19 patients. Independent predictors of postoperative seizures included age, female sex, redo cardiac surgery, calcification of ascending aorta, congestive heart failure, deep hypothermic circulatory arrest, duration of aortic cross-clamp and tranexamic acid. When tested in a multivariate regression analysis, tranexamic acid was a strong independent predictor of seizures (OR 14.3, 95% CI 5.5-36.7; p < 0.001). Patients with convulsive seizures had 2.5 times higher in-hospital mortality rates and twice the length of hospital stay compared with patients without convulsive seizures. Mean (IQR [range]) length of stay in the intensive care unit was 115 (49-228 [32-481]) h in patients with convulsive seizures compared with 26 (22-69 [14-1080]) h in patients without seizures (p < 0.001). Convulsive seizures are a serious postoperative complication after cardiac surgery. As tranexamic acid is the only modifiable factor, its administration, particularly in doses exceeding 80 mg.kg(-1), should be weighed against the risk of postoperative seizures.

26516699	Changes in microRNA (miRNA) expression during pancreatic cancer development and progression in a genetically engineered KrasG12D;Pdx1-Cre mouse (KC) model. Differential expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been demonstrated in various cancers, including pancreatic cancer (PC). Due to the lack of tissue samples from early-stages of PC, the stage-specific alteration of miRNAs during PC initiation and progression is largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the global miRNA expression profile and their processing machinery during PC progression using the KrasG12D;Pdx1-Cre (KC) mouse model. At 25 weeks, the miRNA microarray analysis revealed significant downregulation of miR-150, miR-494, miR-138, miR-148a, miR-216a, and miR-217 and upregulation of miR-146b, miR-205, miR-31, miR-192, and miR-21 in KC mice compared to controls. Further, expression of miRNA biosynthetic machinery including Dicer, Exportin-5, TRKRA, and TARBP2 were downregulated, while DGCR8 and Ago2 were upregulated in KC mice. In addition, from 10 to 50 weeks of age, stage-specific expression profiling of miRNA in KC mice revealed downregulation of miR-216, miR-217, miR-100, miR-345, miR-141, miR-483-3p, miR-26b, miR-150, miR-195, Let-7b and Let-96 and upregulation of miR-21, miR-205, miR-146b, miR-34c, miR-1273, miR-223 and miR-195 compared to control mice. Interestingly, the differential expression of miRNA in mice also corroborated with the miRNA expression in human PC cell lines and tissue samples; ectopic expression of Let-7b in CD18/HPAF and Capan1 cells resulted in the downregulation of KRAS and MSST1 expression. Overall, the present study aids an understanding of miRNA expression patterns during PC pathogenesis and helps to facilitate the identification of promising and novel early diagnostic/prognostic markers and therapeutic targets. 

26731607	DNA-damage response gene GADD45A induces differentiation in hematopoietic stem cells without inhibiting cell cycle or survival. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) maintain blood cell production life-long by their unique abilities of self-renewal and differentiation into all blood cell lineages. Growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible 45 alpha (GADD45A) is induced by genotoxic stress in HSCs. GADD45A has been implicated in cell cycle control, cell death and senescence, as well as in DNA-damage repair. In general, GADD45A provides cellular stability by either arresting the cell cycle progression until DNA damage is repaired or, in cases of fatal damage, by inducing apoptosis. However, the function of GADD45A in hematopoiesis remains controversial. We revealed the changes in murine HSC fate control orchestrated by the expression of GADD45A at single cell resolution. In contrast to other cellular systems, GADD45A expression did not cause a cell cycle arrest or an alteration in the decision between cell survival and apoptosis in HSCs. Strikingly, GADD45A strongly induced and accelerated the differentiation program in HSCs. Continuous tracking of individual HSCs and their progeny via time-lapse microscopy elucidated that once GADD45A was expressed, HSCs differentiate into committed progenitors within 29 hours. GADD45A-expressing HSCs failed to long-term reconstitute the blood of recipients by inducing multilineage differentiation in vivo. Importantly, g-irradiation of HSCs induced their differentiation by upregulating endogenous GADD45A. The differentiation induction by GADD45A was transmitted by activating p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and allowed the generation of megakaryocytic-erythroid, myeloid, and lymphoid lineages. These data indicate that genotoxic stress-induced GADD45A expression in HSCs prevents their fatal transformation by directing them into differentiation and thereby clearing them from the system.

27172902	Cisplatin induces tolerogenic dendritic cells in response to TLR agonists via the abundant production of IL-10, thereby promoting Th2- and Tr1-biased T-cell immunity. Although many advantageous roles of cisplatin (cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II), CDDP) have been reported in cancer therapy, the immunomodulatory roles of cisplatin in the phenotypic and functional alterations of dendritic cells (DCs) are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the effect of cisplatin on the functionality of DCs and the changes in signaling pathways activated upon toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation. Cisplatin-treated DCs down-regulated the expression of cell surface molecules (CD80, CD86, MHC class I and II) and up-regulated endocytic capacity in a dose-dependent manner. Upon stimulation with various TLR agonists, cisplatin-treated DCs showed markedly increased IL-10 production through activation of the p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways without altering the levels of TNF-alpha and IL-12p70, indicating the cisplatin-mediated induction of tolerogenic DCs. This effect was dependent on the production of IL-10 from DCs, as neither DCs isolated from IL-10-/- mice nor IL-10-neutralized DCs generated tolerogenic DCs. Interestingly, DCs that were co-treated with cisplatin and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exhibited a decreased immunostimulatory capacity for inducing the proliferation of Th1- and Th17-type T cells; instead, these DCs contributed to Th2-type T cell immunity. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo investigations revealed a unique T cell population, IL-10-producing CD3+CD4+LAG-3+CD49b+CD25-Foxp3- Tr1 cells, that was significantly increased without altering the Foxp3+ regulatory T cell population. Taken together, our results suggest that cisplatin induces immune-suppressive tolerogenic DCs in TLR agonist-induced inflammatory conditions via abundant IL-10 production, thereby skewing Th cell differentiation towards Th2 and Tr1 cells. This relationship may provide cancer cells with an opportunity to evade the immune system. 

27248656	Hsp90beta is involved in the development of high salt-diet-induced nephropathy via interaction with various signalling proteins. A high-salt diet often leads to a local intrarenal increase in renal hypoxia and oxidative stress, which are responsible for an excess production of pathogenic substances. Here, Wistar Kyoto/spontaneous hypertensive (WKY/SHR) rats fed a high-salt diet developed severe proteinuria, resulting from pronounced renal inflammation, fibrosis and tubular epithelial cell apoptosis. All these were mainly non-pressure-related effects. Hsp90beta, TGF-beta, HIF-1alpha, TNF-alpha, IL-6 and MCP-1 were shown to be highly expressed in response to salt loading. Next, we found that Hsp90beta might play the key role in non-pressure-related effects of salt loading through a series of cellular signalling events, including the NF-kappaB, p38 activation and Bcl-2 inactivation. Hsp90beta was previously proven to regulate the upstream mediators in multiple cellular signalling cascades through stabilizing and maintaining their activities. In our study, 17-dimethylaminoethylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-DMAG) or Hsp90beta knockdown dramatically alleviated the high-salt-diet-induced proteinuria and renal damage without altering blood pressure significantly, when it reversed activations of NF-kappaB, mTOR and p38 signalling cascades. Meanwhile, Co-IP results demonstrated that Hsp90beta could interact with and stabilize TAK1, AMPKalpha, IKKalpha/beta, HIF-1alpha and Raptor, whereas Hsp90beta inhibition disrupted this process. In addition, Hsp90beta inhibition-mediated renal improvements also accompanied the reduction of renal oxidative stress. In conclusion, salt loading indeed exhibited non-pressure-related impacts on proteinuria and renal dysfunction in WKY/SHR rats. Hsp90beta inhibition caused the destabilization of upstream mediators in various pathogenic signalling events, thereby effectively ameliorating this nephropathy owing to renal hypoxia and oxidative stress. 

28660748	Angiotensin II subtype 1a receptor signaling in resident hepatic macrophages induces liver metastasis formation. Liver metastases from colorectal cancer (CRC) are a clinically significant problem. The renin-angiotensin system is involved in tumor growth and metastases. This study was designed to evaluate the role of angiotensin II subtype receptor 1a (AT1a) in the formation of liver metastasis in CRC. A model of liver metastasis was developed by intrasplenic injection of mouse colon cancer (CMT-93) into AT1a knockout mice (AT1aKO) and wild-type (C57BL/6) mice (WT). Compared with WT mice, the liver weight and liver metastatic rate were significantly lower in AT1aKO. The mRNA levels of CD31, transforming growth factor- b1 (TGF-b1), and F4/80 were suppressed in AT1aKO compared with WT. Double immunofluorescence analysis showed that the number of accumulated F4/80(+) cells expressing TGF-b1 in metastatic areas was higher in WT than in AT1aKO. The AT1aKO bone marrow (BM) (AT1aKO-BM)>WT showed suppressed formation of liver metastasis compared with WT-BM>WT. However, the formation of metastasis was further suppressed in WT-BM>AT1aKO compared with AT1aKO-BM>WT. In addition, accumulated F4/80(+) cells in the liver metastasis were not BM-derived F4/80(+) cells, but mainly resident hepatic F4/80(+) cells, and these resident hepatic F4/80(+) cells were positive for TGF-b1. Angiotensin II enhanced TGF-b1 expression in Kupffer cells. Treatment of WT with clodronate liposomes suppressed liver metastasis by diminishing TGF-b1(+) F4/80(+) cells accumulation. The formation of liver metastasis correlated with collagen deposition in the metastatic area, which was dependent on AT1a signaling. These results suggested that resident hepatic macrophages induced liver metastasis formation by induction of TGF-b1 through AT1a signaling.

15983230	Polymorphisms in the SLC2A2 (GLUT2) gene are associated with the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes: the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study. Impaired insulin secretion is a fundamental defect in type 2 diabetes. The aim of this study was to investigate whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the genes regulating insulin secretion (SLC2A2 [encoding GLUT2], GCK, TCF1 [encoding HNF-1alpha], HNF4A, GIP, and GLP1R) are associated with the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) to type 2 diabetes in participants of the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study. With the exception of SLC2A2, other genes were not associated with the risk of type 2 diabetes. All four SNPs of SLC2A2 predicted the conversion to diabetes, and rs5393 (AA genotype) increased the risk of type 2 diabetes in the entire study population by threefold (odds ratio 3.04, 95% CI 1.34-6.88, P = 0.008). The risk for type 2 diabetes in the AA genotype carriers was increased in the control group (5.56 [1.78-17.39], P = 0.003) but not in the intervention group. We conclude that the SNPs of SLC2A2 predict the conversion to diabetes in obese subjects with IGT.

16412238	Peroxisomal proliferator activated receptor-gamma deficiency in a Canadian kindred with familial partial lipodystrophy type 3 (FPLD3). BACKGROUND: Familial partial lipodystrophy (Dunnigan) type 3 (FPLD3, Mendelian Inheritance in Man [MIM] 604367) results from heterozygous mutations in PPARG encoding peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor-gamma. Both dominant-negative and haploinsufficiency mechanisms have been suggested for this condition. METHODS: We present a Canadian FPLD3 kindred with an affected mother who had loss of fat on arms and legs, but no increase in facial, neck, suprascapular or abdominal fat. She had profound insulin resistance, diabetes, severe hypertriglyceridemia and relapsing pancreatitis, while her pre-pubescent daughter had normal fat distribution but elevated plasma triglycerides and C-peptide and depressed high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. RESULTS: The mother and daughter were each heterozygous for PPARG nonsense mutation Y355X, whose protein product in vitro was transcriptionally inactive with no dominant-negative activity against the wild-type receptor. In addition the mutant protein appeared to be markedly unstable. CONCLUSION: Taken together with previous studies of human PPARG mutations, these findings suggest that PPAR-gamma deficiency due either to haploinsufficiency or to substantial activity loss due to dominant negative interference of the normal allele product's function can each contribute to the FPLD3 phenotype.

18270997	Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene variants: possible association of the Val158Met variant with opiate addiction in Hispanic women. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) catalyzes the breakdown of catechol neurotransmitters, including dopamine, which plays a prominent role in drug reward. A common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), G472A, codes for a Val158Met substitution and results in a fourfold down regulation of enzyme activity. We sequenced exon IV of COMT gene in search for novel polymorphisms and then genotyped four out of five identified by direct sequencing, using TaqMan assay on 266 opioid-dependent and 173 control subjects. Genotype frequencies of the G472A SNP varied significantly (P = 0.029) among the three main ethnic/cultural groups (Caucasians, Hispanics, and African Americans). Using a genotype test, we found a trend to point-wise association (P = 0.053) of the G472A SNP in Hispanic subjects with opiate addiction. Further analysis of G472A genotypes in Hispanic subjects with data stratified by gender identified a point-wise significant (P = 0.049) association of G/A and A/A genotypes with opiate addiction in women, but not men. These point-wise significant results are not significant experiment-wise (at P < 0.05) after correction for multiple testing. No significant association was found with haplotypes of the three most common SNPs. Linkage disequilibrium patterns were similar for the three ethnic/cultural groups.

18487244	Depletion of mitochondrial DNA in fibroblast cultures from patients with POLG1 mutations is a consequence of catalytic mutations. We investigated clinical and cellular phenotypes of 24 children with mutations in the catalytic (alpha) subunit of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gamma polymerase (POLG1). Twenty-one had Alpers syndrome, the commonest severe POLG1 autosomal recessive phenotype, comprising hepatoencephalopathy and often mtDNA depletion. The cellular mtDNA content reflected the genotype more closely than did clinical features. Patients with tissue depletion of mtDNA all had at least one allele with either a missense mutation in a catalytic domain or a nonsense mutation. Four out of 12 patients exhibited a progressive, mosaic pattern of mtDNA depletion in cultured fibroblasts. All these patients had mutations in a catalytic domain in both POLG1 alleles, in either the polymerase or exonuclease domain or both. The tissue mtDNA content of patients who had two linker mutations was normal, and their phenotypes the mildest. Epilepsy and/or movement disorder were major features in all 21. Previous studies have implicated replication stalling as a mechanism for mtDNA depletion. The mosaic cellular depletion that we have demonstrated in cell cultures may be a manifestation of severe replication stalling. One patient with a severe cellular and clinical phenotype was a compound heterozygote with POLG1 mutations in the polymerase and exonuclease domain intrans. This suggests that POLG1 requires both polymerase and 3'-5' exonuclease activity in the same molecule. This is consistent with current functional models for eukaryotic DNA polymerases, which alternate between polymerizing and editing modes, as determined by competition between these two active sites for the 3' end of the DNA.

19037252	Mutations in phospholipase C epsilon 1 are not sufficient to cause diffuse mesangial sclerosis. Diffuse mesangial sclerosis occurs as an isolated abnormality or as a part of a syndrome. Recently, mutations in phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) were found to cause a nonsyndromic, autosomal recessive form of this disease. Here we describe three children from one consanguineous kindred of Pakistani origin with diffuse mesangial sclerosis who presented with congenital or infantile nephrotic syndrome. Homozygous mutations in PLCE1 (also known as KIAA1516, PLCE, or NPHS3) were identified following genome-wide mapping of single-nucleotide polymorphisms. All affected children were homozygous for a four-basepair deletion in exon 3, which created a premature translational stop codon. Analysis of the asymptomatic father of two of the children revealed that he was also homozygous for the same mutation. We conclude this nonpenetrance may be due to compensatory mutations at a second locus and that mutation within PLCE1 is not always sufficient to cause diffuse mesangial sclerosis.

19707748	Seizures associated with levofloxacin: case presentation and literature review. PURPOSE: We present a case of a patient who developed seizures shortly after initiating treatment with levofloxacin and to discuss the potential drug-drug interactions related to the inhibition of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 in this case, as well as in other cases, of levofloxacin-induced seizures. METHODS: Several biomedical databases were searched including MEDLINE, Cochrane and Ovid. The main search terms utilized were case report and levofloxacin. The search was limited to studies published in English. RESULTS: Six cases of levofloxacin-induced seizures have been reported in the literature. Drug-drug interactions related to the inhibition of CYP1A2 by levofloxacin are likely involved in the clinical outcome of these cases. CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians are exhorted to pay close attention when initiating levofloxacin therapy in patients taking medications with epileptogenic properties that are CYP1A2 substrates.

20129423	Fatal carbamazepine induced fulminant eosinophilic (hypersensitivity) myocarditis: emphasis on anatomical and histological characteristics, mechanisms and genetics of drug hypersensitivity and differential diagnosis. The most severe adverse reactions to carbamazepine have been observed in the haemopoietic system, the liver and the cardiovascular system. A frequently fatal, although exceptionally rare side effect of carbamazepine is necrotizing eosinophilic (hypersensitivity) myocarditis. We report a case of hypersensitivity myocarditis secondary to administration of carbamazepine. Acute hypersensitivity myocarditis was not suspected clinically, and the diagnosis was made post-mortem. Histology revealed diffuse infiltration of the myocardium by eosinophils and lymphocytes with myocyte damage. Clinically, death was due to cardiogenic shock. To best of our knowledge this is the second case of fatal carbamazepine induced myocarditis reported in English literature.

20651814	Lack of association between ADRA2B-4825 gene insertion/deletion polymorphism and migraine in Chinese Han population. OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to estimate the association between susceptibility to migraine and the 12-nucleotide insertion/deletion (indel) polymorphism in promoter region of alpha(2B)-adrenergic receptor gene (ADRA2B). METHODS: A case-control study was carried out in Chinese Han population, including 368 cases of migraine and 517 controls. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples, and DNA fragments containing the site of polymorphism were amplified by PCR. Data were adjusted for sex, age, migraine history and family history, and analyzed using a logistic regression model. RESULTS: There was no association between indel polymorphism and migraine, at either the allele or the genotype level. CONCLUSION: These findings do not support a functional significance of ADRA2B indel polymorphism at position -4825 relative to the start codon in the far upstream region of the promoter in the present migraine subjects.

21325775	A novel apolipoprotein E mutation, ApoE Osaka (Arg158 Pro), in a dyslipidemic patient with lipoprotein glomerulopathy. Lipoprotein glomerulopathy (LPG) is a rare disease characterized by the presence of thrombuslike deposition in markedly dilated glomerular capillaries and is often accompanied by an increased serum apolipoprotein E (apoE) level. Several gene mutations of apoE have been reported to be associated with LPG. In the current study, we report an LPG patient with a novel apoE mutation, apoE Osaka. The patient was a 45-year-old man who was hospitalized due to nephrotic syndrome. Light and electron microscopic observations of renal biopsy clearly showed characteristic findings of LPG, including lamellate thrombi in the lumen of dilated glomerular capillaries. His apoE phenotype was apoE3/2 and he had mild dyslipidemia with a mid-band on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It is intriguing that the serum apoE level was within normal limits. We determined the sequence of the apoE gene using direct sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products. ApoE gene analysis showed a nucleotide substitution of G to C at codon 158 of exon 4. This mutation denoted an amino acid substitution of arginine residue for the proline residue at position 158 of apoE. The result of PCR associated with restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis also suggested that this mutation is heterozygous. It is possible that apoE Osaka mutation causes a conformational change of apoE protein and affects the interaction between abnormal apoE-containing lipoproteins and the endothelial cells of glomerular capillaries. The precise mechanism of LPG related with apoE Osaka, however, remains to be elucidated.

21699520	PTCH1 gene mutations in exon 17 and loss of heterozygosity on D9S180 microsatellite in sporadic and inherited human basal cell carcinomas. BACKGROUND: Basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) are the most frequent human cancer that results from malignant transformation of basal cells in the epidermis. Gorlin syndrome is a rare inherited autosomal dominant disease that predisposes with multiple BCCs and other birth defects. Both sporadic and inherited BCCs are associated with mutations in the tumor suppressor gene PTCH1, but there is still uncertainty on the role of its homolog PTCH2. OBJECTIVES: To search for mutations and genomic instability in sporadic and inherited BCCs. METHODS: DNA obtained from leukocytes and tumor cells was amplified by polymerase chain reaction regarding five exons of PTCH1 and PTCH2 and neighboring microsatellites. Exons were sequenced and compared with the GenBank database. RESULTS: Only D9S180, of six microsatellites, showed loss of heterozygosity in three BCCs (two sporadic and one inherited). One sporadic BCC presented the mutation g.2885G>C in exon 17 of PTCH1, which predicts the substitution p.R962T in an external domain of the protein. In addition, the leukocytes and tumor cells of one patient with Gorlin syndrome showed the mutation g.2839T>G in the same exon and gene, which predicts a p.E947stop and truncated protein. All control and tumor samples presented IVS9 + 217T in intron 9 of PTCH1. CONCLUSION: Mutations found in the PTCH1 gene and neighboring repetitive sequences may have contributed to the development of the studied BCCs.

22104738	Novel compound heterozygous mutation of MLYCD in a Chinese patient with malonic aciduria. A 3-year-old Chinese boy presented with prominent clinical features of malonic aciduria, including developmental delay, short stature, brain abnormalities and massive excretion of malonic acid and methylmalonic acid. Molecular characterization by DNA sequencing analysis and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification of the MLYCD gene revealed a heterozygous mutation (c.920T>G, p.Leu307Arg) in the patient and his father and a heterozygous deletion comprising exon 1 in the patient and his mother. The missense mutation (c.920T>G) was not found in 100 healthy controls and has not been reported previously. Our findings expand the number of reported cases and add a novel entry to the repertoire of MLYCD mutations.

25218136	Sepsis-induced changes in amino acid transporters and leucine signaling via mTOR in skeletal muscle. The present study tested the hypothesis that sepsis-induced leucine (Leu) resistance in skeletal muscle is associated with a down-regulation of amino acid transporters important in regulating Leu flux or an impairment in the formation of the Leu-sensitive mTOR-Ragulator complex. Sepsis in adult male rats decreased basal protein synthesis in gastrocnemius, associated with a reduction in mTOR activation as indicated by decreased 4E-BP1 and S6K1 phosphorylation. The ability of oral Leu to increase protein synthesis and mTOR kinase after 1 h was largely prevented in sepsis. Sepsis increased CAT1, LAT2 and SNAT2 mRNA content two- to fourfold, but only the protein content for CAT1 (20 % decrease) differed significantly. Conversely, sepsis decreased the proton-assisted amino acid transporter (PAT)-2 mRNA by 60 %, but without a coordinate change in PAT2 protein. There was no sepsis or Leu effect on the protein content for RagA-D, LAMTOR-1 and -2, raptor, Rheb or mTOR in muscle. The binding of mTOR, PRAS40 and RagC to raptor did not differ for control and septic muscle in the basal condition; however, the Leu-induced decrease in PRAS40 raptor and increase in RagC raptor seen in control muscle was absent in sepsis. The intracellular Leu concentration was increased in septic muscle, compared to basal control conditions, and oral Leu further increased the intracellular Leu concentration similarly in both control and septic rats. Hence, while alterations in select amino acid transporters are not associated with development of sepsis-induced Leu resistance, the Leu-stimulated binding of raptor with RagC and the recruitment of mTOR/raptor to the endosome-lysosomal compartment may partially explain the inability of Leu to fully activate mTOR and muscle protein synthesis.

28151486	Star-PAP, a poly(A) polymerase, functions as a tumor suppressor in an orthotopic human breast cancer model. Star-PAP is a noncanonical poly(A) polymerase and required for the expression of a select set of mRNAs. However, the pathological role of Star-PAP in cancer largely remains unknown. In this study, we observed decreased expression of Star-PAP in breast cancer cell lines and tissues. Ectopic Star-PAP expression inhibited proliferation as well as colony-forming ability of breast cancer cells. In breast cancer patients, high levels of Star-PAP correlated with an improved prognosis. Moreover, by regulating the expression of BIK (BCL2-interacting killer), Star-PAP induced apoptosis of breast cancer cells through the mitochondrial pathway. The growth of breast cancer xenografts in NOD/SCID mice was also inhibited by the doxycycline-induced Star-PAP overexpression. Furthermore, Star-PAP sensitized breast cancer cells to chemotherapy drugs both in vitro and in vivo. In mammary epithelial cells, Star-PAP knockdown partially transformed these cells and induced them to undergo epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). These findings suggested that Star-PAP possesses tumor-suppressing activity and can be a valuable target for developing new cancer therapeutic strategies.

15200408	Lack of major involvement of human uroplakin genes in vesicoureteral reflux: implications for disease heterogeneity. BACKGROUND: Primary vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is a hereditary disorder characterized by the retrograde flow of urine into the ureters and kidneys. It affects about 1% of the young children and is thus one of the most common hereditary diseases. Its associated nephropathy is an important cause of end-stage renal failure in children and adults. Recent studies indicate that genetic ablation of mouse uroplakin (UP) III gene, which encodes a 47 kD urothelial-specific integral membrane protein forming urothelial plaques, causes VUR and hydronephrosis. METHODS: To begin to determine whether mutations in UP genes might play a role in human VUR, we genotyped all four UP genes in 76 patients with radiologically proven primary VUR by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and sequencing of all their exons plus 50 to 150 bp of flanking intronic sequences. RESULTS: Eighteen single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified, seven of which were missense, with no truncation or frame shift mutations. Since healthy relatives of the VUR probands are not reliable negative controls for VUR, we used a population of 90 race-matched, healthy individuals, unrelated to the VUR patients, as controls to perform an association study. Most of the SNPs were not found to be significantly associated with VUR. However, SNP1 of UP Ia gene affecting a C to T conversion and an Ala7Val change, and SNP7 of UP III affecting a C to G conversion and a Pro154Ala change, were marginally associated with VUR (both P= 0.08). Studies of additional cases yielded a second set of data that, in combination with the first set, confirmed a weak association of UP III SNP7 in VUR (P= 0.036 adjusted for both subsets of cases vs. controls). CONCLUSION: Such a weak association and the lack of families with simple dominant Mendelian inheritance suggest that missense changes of uroplakin genes cannot play a dominant role in causing VUR in humans, although they may be weak risk factors contributing to a complex polygenic disease. The fact that no truncation or frame shift mutations have been found in any of the VUR patients, coupled with our recent finding that some breeding pairs of UP III knockout mice yield litters that show not only VUR, but also severe hydronephrosis and neonatal death, raises the possibility that major uroplakin mutations could be embryonically or postnatally lethal in humans.

16309808	Does domperidone potentiate mirtazapine-associated restless legs syndrome? There is now evidence to suggest a central role for the dopaminergic system in restless legs syndrome (RLS). For example, the symptoms of RLS can be dramatically improved by levodopa and dopamine agonists, whereas central dopamine D2 receptor antagonists can induce or aggravate RLS symptoms. To our knowledge, there is no previous report regarding whether domperidone, a peripheral dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, can also induce or aggravate symptoms of RLS. Mirtazapine, the first noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA), has been associated with RLS in several recent publications. The authors report here a depressed patient comorbid with postprandial dyspepsia who developed RLS after mirtazapine had been added to his domperidone therapy. Our patient started to have symptoms of RLS only after he had been treated with mirtazapine, and his RLS symptoms resolved completely upon discontinuation of his mirtazapine. Such a temporal relationship between the use of mirtazapine and the symptoms of RLS in our patient did not support a potentiating effect of domperione on mirtazapine-associated RLS. However, physicians should be aware of the possibility that mirtazapine can be associated with RLS in some individuals, especially those receiving concomitant dopamine D2 receptor antagonists.

18000905	Regional analysis on the occurrence of oral clefts in South America. The aim of this work was to search for unequal birth prevalence rates (BPRs) of cleft lip +/- cleft palate (CL/P), and cleft palate only (CPO), among different geographic areas in South America, and to analyze phenotypic characteristics and associated risk factors in each identified cluster. Included were 5,128 CL/P cases, 1,745 CPO cases, and 3,712 controls (like-sexed, non-malformed liveborn infant, born immediately after a malformed one, in the same hospital), over 4,199,630 consecutive births. They were ascertained between 1967 and 2004, in 190 maternity hospitals of the ECLAMC (Estudio Colaborativo Latinoamericano de Malformaciones Congenitas) network, in 102 cities of all 10 South American countries. Non-predefined geographical areas with significantly unusual cleft BPRs were identified with Kulldorf and Nagarwalla's spatial scan statistic, employing number of cases and births, and exact location of each hospital. Expected values were cleft BPRs registered for the entire ECLAMC hospital network. Syndromic and non-syndromic clefts were considered for cluster analysis, and phenotypic characterization, while only non-syndromic for risk factor analysis. Seven clusters for CL/P, and four for CPO, with unusual BPRs were identified. CL/P cases in high BPR areas were more severe than elsewhere in the sample, similar to a previous ECLAMC report on microtia. For CL/P, high BPR clusters were associated with high altitude above sea level, Amerindian ancestry, and low socioeconomic strata; low BPR clusters showed association with African Black ancestry. Advanced maternal age, a recognized risk factor for CPO, was also associated with the only identified geographic cluster for CPO.

18397285	L1503R is a member of group I mutation and has dominant-negative effect on secretion of full-length VWF multimers: an analysis of two patients with type 2A von Willebrand disease. Type 2A von Willebrand disease (VWD) is characterized by decreased platelet-dependent function of von Willebrand factor (VWF); this in turn is associated with an absence of high-molecular-weight multimers. Sequence analysis of the VWF gene from two unrelated type 2A VWD patients showed an identical, novel, heterozygous T-->G transversion at nucleotide 4508, resulting in the substitution of L1503R in the VWF A2 domain. This substitution, which was not found in 60 unrelated normal individuals, was introduced into a full-length VWF cDNA and subsequently expressed in 293T cells. Only trace amount of the mutant VWF protein was secreted but most of the same was retained in 293T cells. Co-transfection experiment of both wild-type and mutant plasmids indicated the dominant-negative mechanism of disease development; as more of mutant DNA was transfected, VWF secretion was impaired in the media, whereas more of VWF was stored in the cell lysates. Molecular dynamic simulations of structural changes induced by L1503R indicated that the mean value of all-atom root-mean-squared-deviation was shifted from those with wild type or another mutation L1503Q that has been reported to be a group II mutation, which is susceptible to ADAMTS13 proteolysis. Protein instability of L1503R may be responsible for its intracellular retention and perhaps the larger VWF multimers, containing more mutant VWF subunits, are likely to be mal-processed and retained within the cell.

18790087	Is the European spatial distribution of the HIV-1-resistant CCR5-Delta32 allele formed by a breakdown of the pathocenosis due to the historical Roman expansion? We studied the possible effects of the expansion of ancient Mediterranean civilizations during the five centuries before and after Christ on the European distribution of the mutant allele for the chemokine receptor gene CCR5 which has a 32-bp deletion (CCR5-Delta32). There is a strong evidence for the unitary origin of the CCR5-Delta32 mutation, this it is found principally in Europe and Western Asia, with generally a north-south downhill cline frequency. Homozygous carriers of this mutation show a resistance to HIV-1 infection and a slower progression towards AIDS. However, HIV has clearly emerged too recently to have been the selective force on CCR5. Our analyses showed strong negative correlations in Europe between the allele frequency and two historical parameters, i.e. the first colonization dates by the great ancient Mediterranean civilizations, and the distances from the Northern frontiers of the Roman Empire in its greatest expansion. Moreover, other studies have shown that the deletion frequencies in both German Bronze Age and Swedish Neolithic populations were similar to those found in the corresponding modern populations, and this deletion has been found in ancient DNA of around 7000 years ago, suggesting that in the past, the deletion frequency could have been relatively high in European populations. In addition, in West Nile virus pathogenesis, CCR5 plays an antimicrobial role showing that host genetic factors are highly pathogen-specific. Our results added to all these previous data suggest that the actual European allele frequency distribution might not be due to genes spreading, but to a negative selection resulting in the spread of pathogens principally during Roman expansion. Indeed, as gene flows from colonizers to European native populations were extremely low, the mutational changes might be associated with vulnerability to imported infections. To date, the nature of the parasites remains unknown; however, zoonoses could be incriminated.

20401977	The human AHR: identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms from six ethnic populations. BACKGROUND: The effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and related dioxin-like chemicals are mediated through binding-dependent activation of the cytosolic aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). The human AHR is a low-affinity receptor relative to most rodents, but some reports suggest that there may be individuals with polymorphic high-affinity receptors, thereby possibly increasing the sensitivity to dioxins in such people. METHODS: Although no polymorphisms have been reported in the ligand binding region of the AHR in the over 100 reported sequences, we sequenced 108 additional human AHR genes in an effort to further identify single single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the open reading frames of the AHR locus. The DNA was sequenced from six ethnic populations that included Japanese, Chinese, European/Caucasian, African-American, South East Asian, and Hispanic. RESULTS: Six exonic SNPs were identified; four had been described as previously reported and two seem to be novel. Four of the SNPs identified lead to amino acid changes in the AHR protein and two of the SNPs lead to synonymous substitutions. An additional four SNPs have been reported elsewhere that were not identified in the current analysis. With these new sequences, more than 200 human AHR gene sequences have been analyzed for SNPs. CONCLUSION: The results indicate a very limited presence of polymorphisms in the core ligand binding region of the human AHR. Other regions, such as the transactivation domain, seem to be slightly more polymorphic in the human population and the impact on functionality should be further examined.

20588063	Permeability, ultrastructural changes, and distribution of novel proteins in the glomerular barrier in early puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. BACKGROUND/AIMS: It is still unclear what happens in the glomerulus when proteinuria starts. Using puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) rats, we studied early ultrastructural and permeability changes in relation to the expression of the podocyte-associated molecules nephrin, a-actinin, dendrin, and plekhh2, the last two of which were only recently discovered in podocytes. METHODS: Using immune stainings, semiquantitative measurement was performed under the electron microscope. Permeability was assessed using isolated kidney perfusion with tracers. Possible effects of ACE inhibition were tested. RESULTS: By day 2, some patchy foot process effacement, but no proteinuria, appeared. The amount of nephrin was reduced in both diseased and normal areas. The other proteins showed few changes, which were limited to diseased areas. By day 4, foot process effacement was complete and proteinuria appeared in parallel with signs of size barrier damage. Nephrin decreased further, while dendrin and plekhh2 also decreased but a-actinin remained unchanged. ACE inhibition had no significant protective effect. CONCLUSIONS: PAN glomeruli already showed significant pathology by day 4, despite relatively mild proteinuria. This was preceded by altered nephrin expression, supporting its pivotal role in podocyte morphology. The novel proteins dendrin and plekhh2 were both reduced, suggesting roles in PAN, whereas a-actinin was unchanged.

20854438	SLURP1 mutation-impaired T-cell activation in a family with mal de Meleda. BACKGROUND: Mal de Meleda (MDM) is palmoplantar erythrokeratoderma with an autosomal recessive inheritance and is caused by a mutation in the gene encoding SLURP-1 (lymphocyte antigen 6/urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor related protein-1). SLURP-1 is an allosteric agonist to the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) and it regulates epidermal homeostasis. In addition, murine studies have shown that nAchR signalling is important for the regulation of T-cell function. Among the family members, patients with the homozygous SLURP1 (previously known as ARS component B) mutation are prone to melanoma and viral infection, which might link to defective T-cell function as well as a derangement of epidermal homeostasis. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the association of the SLURP1 gene mutation with T-cell activation in a Taiwanese family with MDM. To test that SLURP-1 is essential for T-cell activation. METHODS: Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from a Taiwanese MDM family bearing the G to A substitution in nucleotide 256 in the SLURP1 gene, corresponding to a glycine to arginine substitution at amino acid 86 (G86R) in the SLURP-1 protein. PBMCs from homozygotes and wild-type controls were stimulated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 antibodies and the level of T-cell activation was determined by the stimulation index. RESULTS: PBMCs with the heterozygous and homozygous SLURP-1 G86R mutation had defective T-cell activation. This was restored by the addition of 0 5 ug mL(-1) recombinant human SLURP-1 protein. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with MDM with the homozygous SLURP-1 G86R mutation may have an impaired T-cell activation. The presence of wild-type SLURP-1 is essential for normal T-cell activation.

21771880	Resequencing of IRS2 reveals rare variants for obesity but not fasting glucose homeostasis in Hispanic children. Our objective was to resequence insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) to identify variants associated with obesity- and diabetes-related traits in Hispanic children. Exonic and intronic segments, 5' and 3' flanking regions of IRS2 ( 14.5 kb), were bidirectionally sequenced for single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) discovery in 934 Hispanic children using 3730XL DNA Sequencers. Additionally, 15 SNPs derived from Illumina HumanOmni1-Quad BeadChips were analyzed. Measured genotype analysis tested associations between SNPs and obesity and diabetes-related traits. Bayesian quantitative trait nucleotide analysis was used to statistically infer the most likely functional polymorphisms. A total of 140 SNPs were identified with minor allele frequencies (MAF) ranging from 0.001 to 0.47. Forty-two of the 70 coding SNPs result in nonsynonymous amino acid substitutions relative to the consensus sequence; 28 SNPs were detected in the promoter, 12 in introns, 28 in the 3'-UTR, and 2 in the 5'-UTR. Two insertion/deletions (indels) were detected. Ten independent rare SNPs (MAF = 0.001-0.009) were associated with obesity-related traits (P = 0.01-0.00002). SNP 10510452_139 in the promoter region was shown to have a high posterior probability (P = 0.77-0.86) of influencing BMI, fat mass, and waist circumference in Hispanic children. SNP 10510452_139 contributed between 2 and 4% of the population variance in body weight and composition. None of the SNPs or indels were associated with diabetes-related traits or accounted for a previously identified quantitative trait locus on chromosome 13 for fasting serum glucose. Rare but not common IRS2 variants may play a role in the regulation of body weight but not an essential role in fasting glucose homeostasis in Hispanic children.

24100257	Takotsubo syndrome (or apical ballooning syndrome) secondary to Zolmitriptan. Takotsubo syndrome (TS), also known as broken heart syndrome, is characterized by left ventricle apical ballooning with elevated cardiac biomarkers and electrocardiographic changes suggestive of an acute coronary syndrome (ie, ST-segment elevation, T wave inversions, and pathologic Q waves). We report a case of 54-year-old woman with medical history of mitral valve prolapse and migraines, who was admitted to the hospital for substernal chest pain and electrocardiogram demonstrated 1/2 mm ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, aVF, V5, and V6 and positive troponin I. Emergent coronary angiogram revealed normal coronary arteries with moderately reduced left ventricular ejection fraction with wall motion abnormalities consistent with TS. Detailed history obtained retrospectively revealed that the patient took zolmitriptan sparingly only when she had migraines. But before this event, she was taking zolmitriptan 2-3 times daily for several days because of a persistent migraine headache. She otherwise reported that she is quite active, rides horses, and does show jumping without any limitations in her physical activity. There was no evidence of any recent stress or status migrainosus. Extensive literature search revealed multiple cases of coronary artery vasospasm secondary to zolmitriptan, but none of the cases were associated with TS.

25263533	CD25(+) Bcl6(low) T follicular helper cells provide help to maturing B cells in germinal centers of human tonsil. The majority of CXCR5(+) PD1(+) CD4(+) T follicular helper (Tfh) cells (   >90%) are CD25(-) Bcl6(hi) , while a small subpopulation (   <10%) are CD25(+) Bcl6(low) but do not express FoxP3 and are not T regulatory cells. We purified T:B-cell conjugates from tonsils and found they were enriched for the CD25(+) Bcl6(low) Tfh-cell subpopulation. In response to IL-2, these CD25(+) Tfh cells increased expression of costimulatory molecules ICOS or OX40, upregulated transcription factor cMaf, produced cytokines IL-21, IL-17, and IL-10, and raised the levels of antiapoptotic protein Bcl2. Conjugates formed with CD25(+) BCl6(low) Tfh cells included B cells expressing higher levels of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), memory marker CD45RO, surface IgG or IgA, and MHC class II compared to B-cell conjugates including CD25(-) Bcl6(hi) Tfh cells. While IL-2 suppresses early Tfh-cell differentiation, Tfh-cell recognition of antigen-presenting B cells and signaling through the T-cell receptor likely triggers expression of the high-affinity IL-2 receptor and responses to IL-2 including downregulation of Bcl6. CD25 expression on Tfh cells and local production of IL-2 in tonsil or lymph node may support B helper T-cell function during later stages of B-cell maturation and the development of immune memory. 

27779699	Differential expression of filamin B splice variants in giant cell tumor cells. Giant cell tumor of bone (GCT) is the most commonly reported non-malignant bone tumor in Hong Kong. This kind of tumor usually affects people aged 20-40 years. Also, it is well known for recurrence locally, especially when the tumor cannot be removed completely. Filamins are actin-binding proteins which contain three family members, filamin A, B and C. They are the products of three different genes, FLNA, FLNB and FLNC, which can generate various transcript variants in different cell types. In this study, we focused on the effects of FLNBv2 and FLNBv4 toward GCT cells. The only difference between FLNBv2 and FLNBv4 is that FLNBv4 does not contain hinge 1 region. We found that the relative abundance of FLNBv4 varies among different GCT cell lines while the expression level of FLNBv4 in normal osteoblasts was only marginally detectable. In the functional aspect, overexpression of FLNBv4 led to upregulation of RANKL, OCN, OPG and RUNX2, which are closely related to GCT cell survival and differentiation. Moreover, FLNBv4 can have a negative effect on cell viability of GCT cells when compare with FLNBv2. In conclusion, splicing variants of FLNB are differentially expressed in GCT cells and may play a role in the proliferation and differentiation of tumor cells.

28075473	Spirulina lipopolysaccharides inhibit tumor growth in a Toll-like receptor 4-dependent manner by altering the cytokine milieu from interleukin-17/interleukin-23 to interferon-g. Th17 cells and the cytokine they produce, interleukin (IL)-17, play an important role in tumor progression in humans and in mice. IL-6 and IL-23 are critical cytokines for the differentiation and propagation of Th17 cells, respectively. Bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) are known to stimulate immune cells to produce such inflammatory cytokines. Contrary to Escherichia coli (E. coli) LPS, LPS from Spirulina has low toxicity and barely induces in vivo production of IL-6 and IL-23 in mice. We examined the antitumor effects of Spirulina LPS compared to E. coli LPS in an MH134 hepatoma model. Administration of Spirulina LPS suppressed tumor growth in C3H/HeN mice, but not in Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mutant C3H/HeJ mice, by reducing serum levels of IL-17 and IL-23, while increasing interferon (IFN)-g levels. The antitumor activity and IFN-g production were mediated by T cells. Moreover, in vitro experiments showed that Spirulina LPS impaired the antigen-presenting function that supports the generation of IL-17-producing cells in a toll-like receptor (TLR)4-dependent manner. Of note, injection of anti-IL-17 antibody in tumor-bearing C3H/HeN mice in the absence of Spirulina LPS markedly suppressed tumor growth and augmented IFN-g responses. Thus, our results support the notion that IFN-g and IL-17/IL-23 mutually regulate Th17 and Th1 responses in tumor-bearing hosts, and Spirulina LPS modulates the balance of the IFN-g-IL-17/IL-23 axis towards IFN-g production, which leads to tumor inhibition. Furthermore, Spirulina LPS effectively inhibited the spontaneous development of mammary tumors. This study has important implications for the exploitation of TLR-based immunomodulators for cancer immunotherapy.

28260056	Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor-mediated cell survival in hypoxia depends on the promotion of autophagy via suppression of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway. Hypoxia is widely accepted as a fundamental biological phenomenon, which is strongly associated with tissue damage and cell viability under stress conditions. Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is known to protect tissues from multiple types of damage, and protect cells from apoptosis. Hypoxia is a regulatory factor of the IGF system, however the role of the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) in hypoxia-induced apoptosis remains unclear. The present study investigated the potential mechanisms associated with IGF-1R-associated apoptosis under hypoxic conditions. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts exhibiting disruption or overexpression of IGF-1R (R- cells and R+ cells) were used to examine the level of apoptosis, autophagy, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine was used to assess the effect of autophagy on ROS production and apoptosis under hypoxic conditions. A potential downstream signaling pathway involving phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/threonine protein kinase B (Akt)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) was identifiedby western blot analysis. The results demonstrated that hypoxia induced apoptosis, increased ROS production, and promoted autophagy in a time-dependent manner relative to that observed under normoxia. R+ cells exhibited a lower percentage of apoptotic cells, lower ROS production, and higher levels of autophagy when compared to that of R- cells. In addition, inhibition of autophagy led to increased ROS production and a higher percentage of apoptotic cells in the two cell types. Furthermore, IGF-1R is related with PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway and enhanced autophagy-associated protein expression, which was verified following treatment with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002. These results indicated that IGF-1R may increase cell viability under hypoxic conditions by promoting autophagy and scavenging ROS production, which is closed with PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway.

15075188	Increased expression and apical targeting of renal ENaC subunits in puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome in rats. Nephrotic syndrome is often accompanied by sodium retention and generalized edema. However, the molecular basis for the decreased renal sodium excretion remains undefined. We hypothesized that epithelial Na channel (ENaC) subunit dysregulation may be responsible for the increased sodium retention. An experimental group of rats was treated with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN; 180 mg/kg iv), whereas the control group received only vehicle. After 7 days, PAN treatment induced significant proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, decreased urinary sodium excretion, and extensive ascites. The protein abundance of alpha-ENaC and beta-ENaC was increased in the inner stripe of the outer medulla (ISOM) and in the inner medulla (IM) but was not altered in the cortex. gamma-ENaC abundance was increased in the cortex, ISOM, and IM. Immunoperoxidase brightfield- and laser-scanning confocal fluorescence microscopy demonstrated increased targeting of alpha-ENaC, beta-ENaC, and gamma-ENaC subunits to the apical plasma membrane in the distal convoluted tubule (DCT2), connecting tubule, and cortical and medullary collecting duct segments. Immunoelectron microscopy further revealed an increased labeling of alpha-ENaC in the apical plasma membrane of cortical collecting duct principal cells of PAN-treated rats, indicating enhanced apical targeting of alpha-ENaC subunits. In contrast, the protein abundances of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger type 3 (NHE3), Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (BSC-1), and thiazide-sensitive Na(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (TSC) were decreased. Moreover, the abundance of the alpha(1)-subunit of the Na-K-ATPase was decreased in the cortex and ISOM, but it remained unchanged in the IM. In conclusion, the increased or sustained expression of ENaC subunits combined with increased apical targeting in the DCT2, connecting tubule, and collecting duct are likely to play a role in the sodium retention associated with PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome. The decreased abundance of NHE3, BSC-1, TSC, and Na-K-ATPase may play a compensatory role to promote sodium excretion.

15145918	Differential modulation by estrogen of alpha2-adrenergic and I1-imidazoline receptor-mediated hypotension in female rats. We have recently shown that estrogen negatively modulates the hypotensive effect of clonidine (mixed alpha2-/I1-receptor agonist) in female rats and implicates the cardiovascular autonomic control in this interaction. The present study investigated whether this effect of estrogen involves interaction with alpha2- and/or I1-receptors. Changes evoked by a single intraperitoneal injection of rilmenidine (600 microg/kg) or alpha-methyldopa (100 mg/kg), selective I1- and alpha2-receptor agonists, respectively, in blood pressure, hemodynamic variability, and locomotor activity were assessed in radiotelemetered sham-operated and ovariectomized (Ovx) Sprague-Dawley female rats with or without 12-wk estrogen replacement. Three time domain indexes of hemodynamic variability were employed: the standard deviation of mean arterial pressure as a measure of blood pressure variability and the standard deviation of beat-to-beat intervals (SDRR) and the root mean square of successive differences in R-wave-to-R-wave intervals as measures of heart rate variability. In sham-operated rats, rilmenidine or alpha-methyldopa elicited similar hypotension that lasted at least 5 h and was associated with reductions in standard deviation of mean arterial pressure. SDRR was reduced only by alpha-methyldopa. Ovx significantly enhanced the hypotensive response to alpha-methyldopa, in contrast to no effect on rilmenidine hypotension. The enhanced alpha-methyldopa hypotension in Ovx rats was paralleled with further reduction in SDRR and a reduced locomotor activity. Estrogen replacement (17beta-estradiol subcutaneous pellet, 14.2 microg/day, 12 wk) of Ovx rats restored the hemodynamic and locomotor effects of alpha-methyldopa to sham-operated levels. These findings suggest that estrogen downregulates alpha2- but not I1-receptor-mediated hypotension and highlight a role for the cardiac autonomic control in alpha-methyldopa-estrogen interaction.

15278670	The effects of sevoflurane on lidocaine-induced convulsions. The influence of sevoflurane on lidocaine-induced convulsions was studied in cats. The convulsive threshold (mean +/- SD) was 41.4 +/- 6.5 mg. l(-1) with lidocaine infusion (6 mg.kg(-1).min(-1)), increasing significantly to 66.6 +/- 10.9 mg. l(-1) when the end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane was 0.8%. However, the threshold (61.6 +/- 8.7 mg. l(-1)) during 1.6% sevoflurane was not significant from that during 0.8% sevoflurane, indicating a celling effect. There was no significant difference in the convulsive threshold between sevoflurane and enflurane. The rise in blood pressure became less marked when higher concentrations of sevoflurane or enflurane were administered and the blood pressure at convulsions decreased significantly in 1.6% sevoflurane, and in 0.8% and 1.6% enflurane. However, there was no significant difference in the lidocaine concentrations measured when the systolic blood pressure became 70 mmHg. Apamin, a selective blocker of calcium-dependent potassium channels, was administered intracerebroventricularly in rats anesthetized with 0.8% sevoflurane to investigate the mechanism of the anticonvulsive effects. Apamin (10 ng) had a tendency to decrease the convulsive threshold (21.6 +/- 2.2 to 19.9 +/- 2.5 mg. l(-1)) but this was not statistically significant. It is suggested that sevoflurane reduces the convulsive effect of lidocaine toxicity but carries some risk due to circulatory depression.

15614572	Effects of the antidepressant trazodone, a 5-HT 2A/2C receptor antagonist, on dopamine-dependent behaviors in rats. RATIONALE: 5-Hydroxytryptamine, via stimulation of 5-HT 2C receptors, exerts a tonic inhibitory influence on dopaminergic neurotransmission, whereas activation of 5-HT 2A receptors enhances stimulated DAergic neurotransmission. The antidepressant trazodone is a 5-HT 2A/2C receptor antagonist. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of trazodone treatment on behaviors dependent on the functional status of the nigrostriatal DAergic system. METHODS: The effect of pretreatment with trazodone on dexamphetamine- and apomorphine-induced oral stereotypies, on catalepsy induced by haloperidol and apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg, i.p.), on ergometrine-induced wet dog shake (WDS) behavior and fluoxetine-induced penile erections was studied in rats. We also investigated whether trazodone induces catalepsy in rats. RESULTS: Trazodone at 2.5-20 mg/kg i.p. did not induce catalepsy, and did not antagonize apomorphine (1.5 and 3 mg/kg) stereotypy and apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. However, pretreatment with 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg i.p. trazodone enhanced dexamphetamine stereotypy, and antagonized haloperidol catalepsy, ergometrine-induced WDS behavior and fluoxetine-induced penile erections. Trazodone at 30, 40 and 50 mg/kg i.p. induced catalepsy and antagonized apomorphine and dexamphetamine stereotypies. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that trazodone at 2.5-20 mg/kg does not block pre- and postsynaptic striatal D2 DA receptors, while at 30, 40 and 50 mg/kg it blocks postsynaptic striatal D2 DA receptors. Furthermore, at 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, trazodone blocks 5-HT 2A and 5-HT 2C receptors. We suggest that trazodone (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg), by blocking the 5-HT 2C receptors, releases the nigrostriatal DAergic neurons from tonic inhibition caused by 5-HT, and thereby potentiates dexamphetamine stereotypy and antagonizes haloperidol catalepsy.

15630069	Glucose metabolism in patients with schizophrenia treated with atypical antipsychotic agents: a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test and minimal model analysis. BACKGROUND: While the incidence of new-onset diabetes mellitus may be increasing in patients with schizophrenia treated with certain atypical antipsychotic agents, it remains unclear whether atypical agents are directly affecting glucose metabolism or simply increasing known risk factors for diabetes. OBJECTIVE: To study the 2 drugs most clearly implicated (clozapine and olanzapine) and risperidone using a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test. DESIGN: A cross-sectional design in stable, treated patients with schizophrenia evaluated using a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test and the Bergman minimal model analysis. SETTING: Subjects were recruited from an urban community mental health clinic and were studied at a general clinical research center. Patients Fifty subjects signed informed consent and 41 underwent the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test. Thirty-six nonobese subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, matched by body mass index and treated with either clozapine, olanzapine, or risperidone, were included in the analysis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Fasting plasma glucose and fasting serum insulin levels, insulin sensitivity index, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, and glucose effectiveness. RESULTS: The mean +/- SD duration of treatment with the identified atypical antipsychotic agent was 68.3 +/- 28.9 months (clozapine), 29.5 +/- 17.5 months (olanzapine), and 40.9 +/- 33.7 (risperidone). Fasting serum insulin concentrations differed among groups (F(33) = 3.35; P = .047) (clozapine>olanzapine>risperidone) with significant differences between clozapine and risperidone (t(33) = 2.32; P = .03) and olanzapine and risperidone (t(33) = 2.15; P = .04). There was a significant difference in insulin sensitivity index among groups (F(33) = 10.66; P<.001) (clozapine<olanzapine<risperidone), with subjects who received clozapine and olanzapine exhibiting significant insulin resistance compared with subjects who were treated with risperidone (clozapine vs risperidone, t(33) = -4.29; P<.001; olanzapine vs risperidone, t(33) = -3.62; P = .001 [P<.001]). The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance also differed significantly among groups (F(33) = 4.92; P = .01) (clozapine>olanzapine>risperidone) (clozapine vs risperidone, t(33) = 2.94; P = .006; olanzapine vs risperidone, t(33) = 2.42; P = .02). There was a significant difference among groups in glucose effectiveness (F(30) = 4.18; P = .02) (clozapine<olanzapine<risperidone) with significant differences between clozapine and risperidone (t(30) = -2.59; P = .02) and olanzapine and risperidone (t(30) = -2.34, P = .03). CONCLUSIONS: Both nonobese clozapine- and olanzapine-treated groups displayed significant insulin resistance and impairment of glucose effectiveness compared with risperidone-treated subjects. Patients taking clozapine and olanzapine must be examined for insulin resistance and its consequences.

15858223	Valproic acid I: time course of lipid peroxidation biomarkers, liver toxicity, and valproic acid metabolite levels in rats. A single dose of valproic acid (VPA), which is a widely used antiepileptic drug, is associated with oxidative stress in rats, as recently demonstrated by elevated levels of 15-F(2t)-isoprostane (15-F(2t)-IsoP). To determine whether there was a temporal relationship between VPA-associated oxidative stress and hepatotoxicity, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated ip with VPA (500 mg/kg) or 0.9% saline (vehicle) once daily for 2, 4, 7, 10, or 14 days. Oxidative stress was assessed by determining plasma and liver levels of 15-F(2t)-IsoP, lipid hydroperoxides (LPO), and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs). Plasma and liver 15-F(2t)-IsoP were elevated and reached a plateau after day 2 of VPA treatment compared to control. Liver LPO levels were not elevated until day 7 of treatment (1.8-fold versus control, p < 0.05). Liver and plasma TBARs were not increased until 14 days (2-fold vs. control, p < 0.05). Liver toxicity was evaluated based on serum levels of alpha-glutathione S-transferase (alpha-GST) and by histology. Serum alpha-GST levels were significantly elevated by day 4, which corresponded to hepatotoxicity as shown by the increasing incidence of inflammation of the liver capsule, necrosis, and steatosis throughout the study. The liver levels of beta-oxidation metabolites of VPA were decreased by day 14, while the levels of 4-ene-VPA and (E)-2,4-diene-VPA were not elevated throughout the study. Overall, these findings indicate that VPA treatment results in oxidative stress, as measured by levels of 15-F(2t)-IsoP, which precedes the onset of necrosis, steatosis, and elevated levels of serum alpha-GST.

15859361	Safety of celecoxib in patients with adverse skin reactions to acetaminophen (paracetamol) and nimesulide associated or not with common non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. BACKGROUND: Acetaminophen (paracetamol--P) and Nimesulide (N) are widely used analgesic-antipyretic/anti-inflammatory drugs. The rate of adverse hypersensitivity reactions to these agents is generally low. On the contrary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly involved in such reactions. Celecoxib (CE) is a novel drug, with high selectivity and affinity for COX-2 enzyme. OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the tolerability of CE in a group of patients with documented history of adverse cutaneous reactions to P and N associated or not to classic NSAIDs. METHODS: We studied 9 patients with hypersensitivity to P and N with or without associated reactions to classic NSAIDs. The diagnosis of P and N-induced skin reactions was based in vivo challenge. The placebo was blindly administered at the beginning of each challenge. After three days, a cumulative dosage of 200 mg of CE in refracted doses were given. After 2-3 days, a single dose of 200 mg was administered. All patients were observed for 6 hours after each challenge, and controlled again after 24 hours to exclude delayed reactions. The challenge was considered positive if one or more of the following appeared: erythema, rush or urticaria-angioedema. RESULTS: No reaction was observed with placebo and eight patients (88.8%) tolerated CE. Only one patient developed a moderate angioedema of the lips. CONCLUSION: Only one hypersensitivity reaction to CE was documented among 9 P and N-highly NSAIDs intolerant patients. Thus, we conclude that CE is a reasonably safe alternative to be used in subjects who do not tolerate P and N.

15897593	Dexrazoxane protects against myelosuppression from the DNA cleavage-enhancing drugs etoposide and daunorubicin but not doxorubicin. PURPOSE: The anthracyclines daunorubicin and doxorubicin and the epipodophyllotoxin etoposide are potent DNA cleavage-enhancing drugs that are widely used in clinical oncology; however, myelosuppression and cardiac toxicity limit their use. Dexrazoxane (ICRF-187) is recommended for protection against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Because of their widespread use, the hematologic toxicity following coadministration of dexrazoxane and these three structurally different DNA cleavage enhancers was investigated: Sensitivity of human and murine blood progenitor cells to etoposide, daunorubicin, and doxorubicin +/- dexrazoxane was determined in granulocyte-macrophage colony forming assays. Likewise, in vivo, B6D2F1 mice were treated with etoposide, daunorubicin, and doxorubicin, with or without dexrazoxane over a wide range of doses: posttreatment, a full hematologic evaluation was done. RESULTS: Nontoxic doses of dexrazoxane reduced myelosuppression and weight loss from daunorubicin and etoposide in mice and antagonized their antiproliferative effects in the colony assay; however, dexrazoxane neither reduced myelosuppression, weight loss, nor the in vitro cytotoxicity from doxorubicin. CONCLUSION: Although our findings support the observation that dexrazoxane reduces neither hematologic activity nor antitumor activity from doxorubicin clinically, the potent antagonism of daunorubicin activity raises concern; a possible interference with anticancer efficacy certainly would call for renewed attention. Our data also suggest that significant etoposide dose escalation is perhaps possible by the use of dexrazoxane. Clinical trials in patients with brain metastases combining dexrazoxane and high doses of etoposide is ongoing with the aim of improving efficacy without aggravating hematologic toxicity. If successful, this represents an exciting mechanism for pharmacologic regulation of side effects from cytotoxic chemotherapy.

15957009	The selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist Ro4368554 restores memory performance in cholinergic and serotonergic models of memory deficiency in the rat. Antagonists at serotonin type 6 (5-HT(6)) receptors show activity in models of learning and memory. Although the underlying mechanism(s) are not well understood, these effects may involve an increase in acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The present study sought to characterize the cognitive-enhancing effects of the 5-HT(6) antagonist Ro4368554 (3-benzenesulfonyl-7-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)1H-indole) in a rat object recognition task employing a cholinergic (scopolamine pretreatment) and a serotonergic- (tryptophan (TRP) depletion) deficient model, and compared its pattern of action with that of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate. Initial testing in a time-dependent forgetting task employing a 24-h delay between training and testing showed that metrifonate improved object recognition (at 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.), whereas Ro4368554 was inactive. Both, Ro4368554 (3 and 10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) and metrifonate (10 mg/kg, p.o., respectively) reversed memory deficits induced by scopolamine and TRP depletion (10 mg/kg, i.p., and 3 mg/kg, p.o., respectively). In conclusion, although Ro4368554 did not improve a time-related retention deficit, it reversed a cholinergic and a serotonergic memory deficit, suggesting that both mechanisms may be involved in the facilitation of object memory by Ro4368554 and, possibly, other 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists.

16364460	Microinjection of ritanserin into the CA1 region of hippocampus improves scopolamine-induced amnesia in adult male rats. The effect of ritanserin (5-HT2 antagonist) on scopolamine (muscarinic cholinergic antagonist)-induced amnesia in Morris water maze (MWM) was investigated. Rats were divided into eight groups and bilaterally cannulated into CA1 region of the hippocampus. One week later, they received repeatedly vehicles (saline, DMSO, saline+DMSO), scopolamine (2 microg/0.5 microl saline/side; 30 min before training), ritanserin (2, 4 and 8 microg/0.5 microl DMSO/side; 20 min before training) and scopolamine (2 microg/0.5 microl; 30 min before ritanserin injection)+ritanserin (4 microg/0.5 microl DMSO) through cannulae each day. Animals were tested for four consecutive days (4 trial/day) in MWM during which the position of hidden platform was unchanged. In the fifth day, the platform was elevated above the water surface in another position to evaluate the function of motor, motivational and visual systems. The results showed a significant increase in escape latencies and traveled distances to find platform in scopolamine-treated group as compared to saline group. Ritanserin-treated rats (4 microg/0.5 microl/side) showed a significant decrease in the mentioned parameters as compared to DMSO-treated group. However, scopolamine and ritanserin co-administration resulted in a significant decrease in escape latencies and traveled distances as compared to the scopolamine-treated rats. Our findings show that microinjection of ritanserin into the CA1 region of the hippocampus improves the scopolamine-induced amnesia.

16574713	Memory function and serotonin transporter promoter gene polymorphism in ecstasy (MDMA) users. Although 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) has been shown to damage brain serotonin (5-HT) neurons in animals and possibly humans, little is known about the long-term consequences of MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxic lesions on functions in which 5-HT is involved, such as cognitive function. Because 5-HT transporters play a key element in the regulation of synaptic 5-HT transmission it may be important to control for the potential covariance effect of a polymorphism in the 5-HT transporter promoter gene region (5-HTTLPR) when studying the effects of MDMA as well as cognitive functioning. The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of moderate and heavy MDMA use on cognitive function, as well as the effects of long-term abstention from MDMA, in subjects genotyped for 5-HTTLPR. A second aim of the study was to determine whether these effects differ for females and males. Fifteen moderate MDMA users (<55 lifetime tablets), 22 heavy MDMA+ users (>55 lifetime tablets), 16 ex-MDMA+ users (last tablet > 1 year ago) and 13 controls were compared on a battery of neuropsychological tests. DNA from peripheral nuclear blood cells was genotyped for 5-HTTLPR using standard polymerase chain reaction methods.A significant group effect was observed only on memory function tasks (p = 0.04) but not on reaction times (p = 0.61) or attention/executive functioning (p = 0.59). Heavy and ex-MDMA+ users performed significantly poorer on memory tasks than controls. In contrast, no evidence of memory impairment was observed in moderate MDMA users. No significant effect of 5-HTTLPR or gender was observed. While the use of MDMA in quantities that may be considered "moderate" is not associated with impaired memory functioning, heavy use of MDMA use may lead to long lasting memory impairments. No effect of 5-HTTLPR or gender on memory function or MDMA use was observed.

16584858	Role of mangiferin on biochemical alterations and antioxidant status in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The current study dealt with the protective role of mangiferin, a polyphenol from Mangifera indica Linn. (Anacardiaceae), on isoproterenol (ISPH)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rats through its antioxidative mechanism. Subcutaneous injection of ISPH (200 mg/kg body weight in 1 ml saline) to rats for 2 consecutive days caused myocardial damage in rat heart, which was determined by the increased activity of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phosphokinase isoenzymes (CK-MB), increased uric acid level and reduced plasma iron binding capacity. The protective role of mangiferin was analyzed by triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) test used for macroscopic enzyme mapping assay of the ischemic myocardium. The heart tissue antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione transferase and glutathione reductase activities, non-enzymic antioxidants such as cerruloplasmin, Vitamin C, Vitamin E and glutathione levels were altered in MI rats. Upon pretreatment with mangiferin (100 mg/kg body weight suspended in 2 ml of dimethyl sulphoxide) given intraperitoneally for 28 days to MI rats protected the above-mentioned parameters to fall from the normal levels. Activities of heart tissue enzymic antioxidants and serum non-enzymic antioxidants levels rose significantly upon mangiferin administration as compared to ISPH-induced MI rats. From the present study it is concluded that mangiferin exerts a beneficial effect against ISPH-induced MI due to its antioxidant potential, which regulated the tissues defense system against cardiac damage.

16586083	Cardiovascular risk with cyclooxygenase inhibitors: general problem with substance specific differences? Randomised clinical trials and observational studies have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, hypertension and heart failure during treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors. Adverse cardiovascular effects occurred mainly, but not exclusively, in patients with concomitant risk factors. Cyclooxygenase inhibitors cause complex changes in renal, vascular and cardiac prostanoid profiles thereby increasing vascular resistance and fluid retention. The incidence of cardiovascular adverse events tends to increase with the daily dose and total exposure time. A comparison of individual selective and unselective cyclooxygenase inhibitors suggests substance-specific differences, which may depend on differences in pharmacokinetic parameters or inhibitory potency and may be contributed by prostaglandin-independent effects. Diagnostic markers such as N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) or high-sensitive C-reactive protein might help in the early identification of patients at risk, thus avoiding the occurrence of serious cardiovascular toxicity.

16634859	Impact of alcohol exposure after pregnancy recognition on ultrasonographic fetal growth measures. BACKGROUND: More than 3 decades after Jones and Smith (1973) reported on the devastation caused by alcohol exposure on fetal development, the rates of heavy drinking during pregnancy remain relatively unchanged. Early identification of fetal alcohol exposure and maternal abstinence led to better infant outcomes. This study examined the utility of biometry for detecting alcohol-related fetal growth impairment. METHODS: We obtained fetal ultrasound measures from routine ultrasound examinations for 167 pregnant hazardous drinkers who were enrolled in a brief alcohol intervention study. The fetal measures for women who quit after learning of their pregnancies were compared with measures for women who continued some drinking throughout the course of their pregnancies. Because intensity of alcohol consumption is associated with poorer fetal outcomes, separate analyses were conducted for the heavy (average of >or=5 drinks per drinking day) alcohol consumers. Fetal measures from the heavy-exposed fetuses were also compared with measures from a nondrinking group that was representative of normal, uncomplicated pregnancies from our clinics. Analyses of covariance were used to determine whether there were differences between groups after controlling for influences of gestational age and drug abuse. RESULTS: Nearly half of the pregnant drinkers abstained after learning of their pregnancies. When women reportedly quit drinking early in their pregnancies, fetal growth measures were not significantly different from a non-alcohol-exposed group, regardless of prior drinking patterns. Any alcohol consumption postpregnancy recognition among the heavy drinkers resulted in reduced cerebellar growth as well as decreased cranial to body growth in comparison with women who either quit drinking or who were nondrinkers. Amphetamine abuse was predictive of larger cranial to body growth ratios. CONCLUSIONS: Alterations in fetal biometric measurements were observed among the heavy drinkers only when they continued drinking after becoming aware of their pregnancies. Although the reliance on self-reported drinking is a limitation in this study, these findings support the benefits of early abstinence and the potential for ultrasound examinations in the detection of fetal alcohol effects.

16725121	Down-regulation of norepinephrine transporter function induced by chronic administration of desipramine linking to the alteration of sensitivity of local-anesthetics-induced convulsions and the counteraction by co-administration with local anesthetics. Alterations of norepinephrine transporter (NET) function by chronic inhibition of NET in relation to sensitization to seizures induce by cocaine and local anesthetics were studied in mice. Daily administration of desipramine, an inhibitor of the NET, for 5 days decreased [(3)H]norepinephrine uptake in the P2 fractions of hippocampus but not cortex, striatum or amygdalae. Co-administration of lidocaine, bupivacaine or tricaine with desipramine reversed this effect. Daily treatment of cocaine increased [(3)H]norepinephrine uptake into the hippocampus. Daily administration of desipramine increased the incidence of appearance of lidocaine-induced convulsions and decreased that of cocaine-induced convulsions. Co-administration of lidocaine with desipramine reversed the changes of convulsive activity of lidocaine and cocaine induced by repeated administration of desipramine. These results suggest that down-regulation of hippocampal NET induced by chronic administration of desipramine may be relevant to desipramine-induced sensitization of lidocaine convulsions. Inhibition of Na(+) channels by local anesthetics may regulate desipramine-induced down-regulation of NET function. Repeated administration of cocaine induces up-regulation of hippocampal NET function. Desipramine-induced sensitization of lidocaine seizures may have a mechanism distinct from kindling resulting from repeated administration of cocaine.

16755009	Pharmacological evidence for the potential of Daucus carota in the management of cognitive dysfunctions. The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of Daucus carota seeds on cognitive functions, total serum cholesterol levels and brain cholinesterase activity in mice. The ethanolic extract of Daucus carota seeds (DCE) was administered orally in three doses (100, 200, 400 mg/kg) for seven successive days to different groups of young and aged mice. Elevated plus maze and passive avoidance apparatus served as the exteroceptive behavioral models for testing memory. Diazepam-, scopolamine- and ageing-induced amnesia served as the interoceptive behavioral models. DCE (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) showed significant improvement in memory scores of young and aged mice. The extent of memory improvement evoked by DCE was 23% at the dose of 200 mg/kg and 35% at the dose of 400 mg/kg in young mice using elevated plus maze. Similarly, significant improvements in memory scores were observed using passive avoidance apparatus and aged mice. Furthermore, DCE reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Daucus carota extract (200, 400 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced significantly the brain acetylcholinesterase activity and cholesterol levels in young and aged mice. The extent of inhibition of brain cholinesterase activity evoked by DCE at the dose of 400 mg/kg was 22% in young and 19% in aged mice. There was a remarkable reduction in total cholesterol level as well, to the extent of 23% in young and 21% in aged animals with this dose of DCE. Therefore, DCE may prove to be a useful remedy for the management of cognitive dysfunctions on account of its multifarious beneficial effects such as, memory improving property, cholesterol lowering property and anticholinesterase activity.

16810074	Mechanisms of hypertension induced by nitric oxide (NO) deficiency: focus on venous function. Loss of endothelial cell-derived nitric oxide (NO) in hypertension is a hallmark of arterial dysfunction. Experimental hypertension created by the removal of NO, however, involves mechanisms in addition to decreased arterial vasodilator activity. These include augmented endothelin-1 (ET-1) release, increased sympathetic nervous system activity, and elevated tissue oxidative stress. We hypothesized that increased venous smooth muscle (venomotor) tone plays a role in Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (LNNA) hypertension through these mechanisms. Rats were treated with the NO synthase inhibitor LNNA (0.5 g/L in drinking water) for 2 weeks. Mean arterial pressure of conscious rats was 119 +/- 2 mm Hg in control and 194 +/- 5 mm Hg in LNNA rats (P<0.05). Carotid arteries and vena cava were removed for measurement of isometric contraction. Maximal contraction to norepinephrine was modestly reduced in arteries from LNNA compared with control rats whereas the maximum contraction to ET-1 was significantly reduced (54% control). Maximum contraction of vena cava to norepinephrine (37% control) also was reduced but no change in response to ET-1 was observed. Mean circulatory filling pressure, an in vivo measure of venomotor tone, was not elevated in LNNA hypertension at 1 or 2 weeks after LNNA. The superoxide scavenger tempol (30, 100, and 300 micromol kg(-1), IV) did not change arterial pressure in control rats but caused a dose-dependent decrease in LNNA rats (-18 +/- 8, -26 +/- 15, and -54 +/- 11 mm Hg). Similarly, ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium caused a significantly greater fall in LNNA hypertensive rats (76 +/- 9 mm Hg) compared with control rats (35 +/- 10 mm Hg). Carotid arteries, vena cava, and sympathetic ganglia from LNNA rats had higher basal levels of superoxide compared with those from control rats. These data suggest that while NO deficiency increases oxidative stress and sympathetic activity in both arterial and venous vessels, the impact on veins does not make a major contribution to this form of hypertension.

16920333	Anticonvulsant effect of eslicarbazepine acetate (BIA 2-093) on seizures induced by microperfusion of picrotoxin in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. Eslicarbazepine acetate (BIA 2-093, S-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo/b,f/azepine-5-carboxamide) is a novel antiepileptic drug, now in Phase III clinical trials, designed with the aim of improving efficacy and safety in comparison with the structurally related drugs carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXC). We have studied the effects of oral treatment with eslicarbazepine acetate on a whole-animal model in which partial seizures can be elicited repeatedly on different days without changes in threshold or seizure patterns. In the animals treated with threshold doses of picrotoxin, the average number of seizures was 2.3+/-1.2, and average seizure duration was 39.5+/-8.4s. Pre-treatment with a dose of 30 mg/kg 2h before picrotoxin microperfusion prevented seizures in the 75% of the rats. Lower doses (3 and 10mg/kg) did not suppress seizures, however, after administration of 10mg/kg, significant reductions in seizures duration (24.3+/-6.8s) and seizure number (1.6+/-0.34) were found. No adverse effects of eslicarbazepine acetate were observed in the behavioral/EEG patterns studied, including sleep/wakefulness cycle, at the doses studied.

17042910	Anti-oxidant effects of atorvastatin in dexamethasone-induced hypertension in the rat. 1. Dexamethasone (Dex)-induced hypertension is characterized by endothelial dysfunction associated with nitric oxide (NO) deficiency and increased superoxide (O2-) production. Atorvastatin (Ato) possesses pleiotropic properties that have been reported to improve endothelial function through increased availability of NO and reduced O2- production in various forms of hypertension. In the present study, we investigated whether 50 mg/kg per day, p.o., Ato could prevent endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) downregulation and the increase in O2- in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, thereby reducing blood pressure. 2. Male SD rats (n = 30) were treated with Ato (50 mg/kg per day in drinking water) or tap water for 15 days. Dexamethasone (10 microg/kg per day, s.c.) or saline was started after 4 days in Ato-treated and non-treated rats and continued for 11-13 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured on alternate days using the tail-cuff method. Endothelial function was assessed by acetylcholine-induced vasorelaxation and phenylephrine-induced vasoconstriction in aortic segments. Vascular eNOS mRNA was assessed by semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. 3. In rats treated with Dex alone, SBP was increased from 109 +/- 2 to 133 +/- 2 mmHg on Days 4 and Day 14, respectively (P < 0.001). In the Ato + Dex group, SBP was increased from 113 +/- 2 to 119 +/- 2 mmHg on Days 4 to 14, respectively (P < 0.001), but was significantly lower than SBP in the group treated with Dex alone (P < 0.05). Endothelial-dependent relaxation and eNOS mRNA expression were greater in the Dex + Ato group than in the Dex only group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.0001, respectively). Aortic superoxide production was lower in the Dex + Ato group compared with the group treated with Dex alone (P < 0.0001). 4. Treatment with Ato improved endothelial function, reduced superoxide production and reduced SBP in Dex-treated SD rats.

17194457	Behavioral effects of pubertal anabolic androgenic steroid exposure in male rats with low serotonin. The goal of this study was to assess the interactive effects of chronic anabolic androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure and brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) depletion on behavior of pubertal male rats. Serotonin was depleted beginning on postnatal day 26 with parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA 100 mg/kg, every other day); controls received saline. At puberty (P40), half the PCPA-treated rats and half the saline-treated rats began treatment with testosterone (T, 5 mg/kg, 5 days/week). Behavioral measures included locomotion, irritability, copulation, partner preference, and aggression. Animals were tested for aggression in their home cage, both with and without physical provocation (mild tail pinch). Brain levels of 5-HT and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), were determined using HPLC. PCPA significantly and substantially depleted 5-HT and 5-HIAA in all brain regions examined. Chronic T treatment significantly decreased 5-HT and 5-HIAA in certain brain areas, but to a much lesser extent than PCPA. Chronic exposure to PCPA alone significantly decreased locomotor activity and increased irritability but had no effect on sexual behavior, partner preference, or aggression. T alone had no effect on locomotion, irritability, or sexual behavior but increased partner preference and aggression. The most striking effect of combining T+PCPA was a significant increase in attack frequency as well as a significant decrease in the latency to attack, particularly following physical provocation. Based on these data, it can be speculated that pubertal AAS users with low central 5-HT may be especially prone to exhibit aggressive behavior.

17244258	In vitro characterization of parasympathetic and sympathetic responses in cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat. In cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat, detrusor function is impaired and the expression and effects of muscarinic receptors altered. Whether or not the neuronal transmission may be affected by cystitis was presently investigated. Responses of urinary strip preparations from control and cyclophosphamide-pretreated rats to electrical field stimulation and to agonists were assessed in the absence and presence of muscarinic, adrenergic and purinergic receptor antagonists. Generally, atropine reduced contractions, but in contrast to controls, it also reduced responses to low electrical field stimulation intensity (1-5 Hz) in inflamed preparations. In both types, purinoceptor desensitization with alpha,beta-methylene adenosine-5'-triphosphate (alpha,beta-meATP) caused further reductions at low frequencies (<10 Hz). The muscarinic receptor antagonists atropine, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP) ('M(1)/M(3)/M(5)-selective'), methoctramine ('M(2)-selective') and pirenzepine ('M(1)-selective') antagonized the tonic component of the electrical field stimulation-evoked contractile response more potently than the phasic component. 4-DAMP inhibited the tonic contractions in controls more potently than methoctramine and pirenzepine. In inflamed preparations, the muscarinic receptor antagonism on the phasic component of the electrical field stimulation-evoked contraction was decreased and the pirenzepine and 4-DAMP antagonism on the tonic component was much less efficient than in controls. In contrast to controls, methoctramine increased -- instead of decreased -- the tonic responses at high frequencies. While contractions to carbachol and ATP were the same in inflamed and in control strips when related to a reference potassium response, isoprenaline-induced relaxations were smaller in inflamed strips. Thus, in cystitis substantial changes of the efferent functional responses occur. While postjunctional beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxations are reduced, effects by prejunctional inhibitory muscarinic receptors may be increased.

17379047	Comparison of valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy at doses up to 320/25 mg versus monotherapy: a double-blind, placebo-controlled study followed by long-term combination therapy in hypertensive adults. BACKGROUND: One third of patients treated for hypertension attain adequate blood pressure (BP) control, and multidrug regimens are often required. Given the lifelong nature of hypertension, there is a need to evaluate the long-term efficacy and tolerability of higher doses of combination anti-hypertensive therapies. OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the efficacy and tolerability of valsartan (VAL) or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ)-monotherapy and higher-dose combinations in patients with essential hypertension. METHODS: The first part of this study was an 8-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel-group trial. Patients with essential hypertension (mean sitting diastolic BP [MSDBP], > or =95 mm Hg and <110 mm Hg) were randomized to 1 of 8 treatment groups: VAL 160 or 320 mg; HCTZ 12.5 or 25 mg; VAL/HCTZ 160/12.5, 320/12.5, or 320/25 mg; or placebo. Mean changes in MSDBP and mean sitting systolic BP (MSSBP) were analyzed at the 8-week core study end point. VAL/HCTZ 320/12.5 and 320/25 mg were further investigated in a 54-week, open-label extension. Response was defined as MSDBP <90 mm Hg or a > or =10 mm Hg decrease compared to baseline. Control was defined as MSDBP <90 mm Hg compared with baseline. Tolerability was assessed by monitoring adverse events at randomization and all subsequent study visits and regular evaluation of hematology and blood chemistry. RESULTS: A total of 1346 patients were randomized into the 8-week core study (734 men, 612 women; 924 white, 291 black, 23 Asian, 108 other; mean age, 52.7 years; mean weight, 92.6 kg). All active treatments were associated with significantly reduced MSSBP and MSDBP during the core 8-week study, with each monotherapy significantly contributing to the overall effect of combination therapy (VAL and HCTZ, P < 0.001). Each combination was associated with significantly greater reductions in MSSBP and MSDBP compared with the monotherapies and placebo (all, P < 0.001). The mean reduction in MSSBP/MSDBP with VAL/HCTZ 320/25 mg was 24.7/16.6 mm Hg, compared with 5.9/7.0 mm Hg with placebo. The reduction in MSSBP was significantly greater with VAL/HCTZ 320/25 mg compared with VAL/HCTZ 160/12.5 mg (P < 0.002). Rates of response and BP control were significantly higher in the groups that received combination treatment compared with those that received monotherapy. The incidence of hypokalemia was lower with VAL/HCTZ combinations (1.8%-6.1%) than with HCTZ monotherapies (7.1%-13.3%). The majority of adverse events in the core study were of mild to moderate severity. The efficacy and tolerability of VAL/HCTZ combinations were maintained during the extension (797 patients). CONCLUSIONS: In this study population, combination therapies with VAL/HCTZ were associated with significantly greater BP reductions compared with either monotherapy, were well tolerated, and were associated with less hypokalemia than HCTZ alone.

17439425	Role of xanthine oxidase in dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rats. 1. Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension (GC-HT) in the rat is associated with nitric oxide-redox imbalance. 2. We studied the role of xanthine oxidase (XO), which is implicated in the production of reactive oxygen species, in dexamethasone-induced hypertension (dex-HT). 3. Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into four treatment groups: saline, dexamethasone (dex), allopurinol plus saline, and allopurinol plus dex. 4. Systolic blood pressures (SBP) and bodyweights were recorded each alternate day. Thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoid activity, and serum urate to assess XO inhibition. 5. Dex increased SBP (110 +/- 2-126 +/- 3 mmHg; P < 0.001) and decreased thymus (P < 0.001) and bodyweights (P" < 0.01). Allopurinol decreased serum urate from 76 +/- 5 to 30 +/- 3 micromol/L (P < 0.001) in saline and from 84 +/- 13 to 28 +/- 2 micromol/L in dex-treated (P < 0.01) groups. 6. Allopurinol did not prevent dex-HT. This, together with our previous findings that allopurinol failed to prevent adrenocorticotrophic hormone induced hypertension, suggests that XO activity is not a major determinant of GC-HT in the rat.

17572393	Neuroprotective effects of melatonin upon the offspring cerebellar cortex in the rat model of BCNU-induced cortical dysplasia. Cortical dysplasia is a malformation characterized by defects in proliferation, migration and maturation. This study was designed to evaluate the alterations in offspring rat cerebellum induced by maternal exposure to carmustine-[1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosoure] (BCNU) and to investigate the effects of exogenous melatonin upon cerebellar BCNU-induced cortical dysplasia, using histological and biochemical analyses. Pregnant Wistar rats were assigned to five groups: intact-control, saline-control, melatonin-treated, BCNU-exposed and BCNU-exposed plus melatonin. Rats were exposed to BCNU on embryonic day 15 and melatonin was given until delivery. Immuno/histochemistry and electron microscopy were carried out on the offspring cerebellum, and levels of malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase were determined. Histopathologically, typical findings were observed in the cerebella from the control groups, but the findings consistent with early embryonic development were noted in BCNU-exposed cortical dysplasia group. There was a marked increase in the number of TUNEL positive cells and nestin positive cells in BCNU-exposed group, but a decreased immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin and transforming growth factor beta1 was observed, indicating a delayed maturation, and melatonin significantly reversed these changes. Malondialdehyde level in BCNU-exposed group was higher than those in control groups and melatonin decreased malondialdehyde levels in BCNU group (P<0.01), while there were no significant differences in the superoxide dismutase levels between these groups. These data suggest that exposure of animals to BCNU during pregnancy leads to delayed maturation of offspring cerebellum and melatonin protects the cerebellum against the effects of BCNU.

17615423	Severe rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure secondary to concomitant use of simvastatin, amiodarone, and atazanavir. OBJECTIVE: To report a case of a severe interaction between simvastatin, amiodarone, and atazanavir resulting in rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure. BACKGROUND: A 72-year-old white man with underlying human immunodeficiency virus, atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, and hyperlipidemia presented with generalized pain, fatigue, and dark orange urine for 3 days. The patient was taking 80 mg simvastatin at bedtime (initiated 27 days earlier); amiodarone at a dose of 400 mg daily for 7 days, then 200 mg daily (initiated 19 days earlier); and 400 mg atazanavir daily (initiated at least 2 years previously). Laboratory evaluation revealed 66,680 U/L creatine kinase, 93 mg/dL blood urea nitrogen, 4.6 mg/dL creatinine, 1579 U/L aspartate aminotransferase, and 738 U/L alanine aminotransferase. Simvastatin, amiodarone, and the patient's human immunodeficiency virus medications were all temporarily discontinued and the patient was given forced alkaline diuresis and started on dialysis. Nine days later the patient's creatine kinase had dropped to 1695 U/L and creatinine was 3.3 mg/dL. The patient was discharged and continued outpatient dialysis for 1 month until his renal function recovered. DISCUSSION: The risk of rhabdomyolysis is increased in the presence of concomitant drugs that inhibit simvastatin metabolism. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4. Amiodarone and atazanavir are recognized CYP3A4 inhibitors. CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacokinetic differences in statins are an important consideration for assessing the risk of potential drug interactions. In patients requiring the concurrent use of statins and CYP3A4 inhibitors, pravastatin, fluvastatin, and rosuvastatin carry the lowest risk of drug interactions; atorvastatin carries moderate risk, whereas simvastatin and lovastatin have the highest risk and should be avoided in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors.

17854040	Mutations associated with lamivudine-resistance in therapy-na  ve hepatitis B virus (HBV) infected patients with and without HIV co-infection: implications for antiretroviral therapy in HBV and HIV co-infected South African patients. This was an exploratory study to investigate lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) strains in selected lamivudine-na  ve HBV carriers with and without human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection in South African patients. Thirty-five lamivudine-na  ve HBV infected patients with or without HIV co-infection were studied: 15 chronic HBV mono-infected patients and 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients. The latter group was further sub-divided into 13 occult HBV (HBsAg-negative) and 7 overt HBV (HBsAg- positive) patients. HBsAg, anti-HBs, anti-HBc, and anti-HIV 1/2 were determined as part of routine diagnosis using Axsym assays (Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, IL). Serum samples were PCR amplified with HBV reverse transcriptase (RT) primers, followed by direct sequencing across the tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) motif of the major catalytic region in the C domain of the HBV RT enzyme. HBV viral load was performed with Amplicor HBV Monitor test v2.0 (Roche Diagnostics, Penzberg, Germany). HBV lamivudine-resistant strains were detected in 3 of 15 mono-infected chronic hepatitis B patients and 10 of 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients. To the best of our knowledge, this constitutes the first report of HBV lamivudine-resistant strains in therapy-na  ve HBV-HIV co-infected patients. The HBV viral loads for mono-infected and co-infected patients ranged from 3.32 x 10(2) to 3.82 x 10(7) and <200 to 4.40 x 10(3) copies/ml, respectively. It remains to be seen whether such pre-existing antiviral mutations could result in widespread emergence of HBV resistant strains when lamivudine-containing highly active antiretroviral (ARV) treatment (HAART) regimens become widely applied in South Africa, as this is likely to have potential implications in the management of HBV-HIV co-infected patients.

17975693	Anxiogenic potential of ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin in rats. INTRODUCTION: The possible anxiogenic effects of fluoroquinolones, namely ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin, were investigated in adult Charles Foster albino rats of either sex, weighing 150-200 g. METHODS: The drugs were given orally, in doses of 50 mg/kg for five consecutive days and the experiments were performed on the fifth day. The tests included open-field exploratory behaviour, elevated plus maze and elevated zero maze, social interaction and novelty-suppressed feeding latency behaviour. RESULTS: The results indicate that ciprofloxacin- and norfloxacin-treated rats showed anxious behaviour in comparison to control rats in all the parameters studied. However, ciprofloxacin- and norfloxacin-treated rats did not differ significantly from each other in various behavioural parameters. CONCLUSION: The present experimental findings substantiate the clinically observed anxiogenic potential of ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin.

18083142	Norepinephrine signaling through beta-adrenergic receptors is critical for expression of cocaine-induced anxiety. BACKGROUND: Cocaine is a widely abused psychostimulant that has both rewarding and aversive properties. While the mechanisms underlying cocaine's rewarding effects have been studied extensively, less attention has been paid to the unpleasant behavioral states induced by cocaine, such as anxiety. METHODS: In this study, we evaluated the performance of dopamine beta-hydroxylase knockout (Dbh -/-) mice, which lack norepinephrine (NE), in the elevated plus maze (EPM) to examine the contribution of noradrenergic signaling to cocaine-induced anxiety. RESULTS: We found that cocaine dose-dependently increased anxiety-like behavior in control (Dbh +/-) mice, as measured by a decrease in open arm exploration. The Dbh -/- mice had normal baseline performance in the EPM but were completely resistant to the anxiogenic effects of cocaine. Cocaine-induced anxiety was also attenuated in Dbh +/- mice following administration of disulfiram, a dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) inhibitor. In experiments using specific adrenergic antagonists, we found that pretreatment with the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol blocked cocaine-induced anxiety-like behavior in Dbh +/- and wild-type C57BL6/J mice, while the alpha(1) antagonist prazosin and the alpha(2) antagonist yohimbine had no effect. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that noradrenergic signaling via beta-adrenergic receptors is required for cocaine-induced anxiety in mice.

18165598	The differential effects of bupivacaine and lidocaine on prostaglandin E2 release, cyclooxygenase gene expression and pain in a clinical pain model. BACKGROUND: In addition to blocking nociceptive input from surgical sites, long-acting local anesthetics might directly modulate inflammation. In the present study, we describe the proinflammatory effects of bupivacaine on local prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production and cyclooxygenase (COX) gene expression that increases postoperative pain in human subjects. METHODS: Subjects (n = 114) undergoing extraction of impacted third molars received either 2% lidocaine or 0.5% bupivacaine before surgery and either rofecoxib 50 mg or placebo orally 90 min before surgery and for the following 48 h. Oral mucosal biopsies were taken before surgery and 48 h after surgery. After extraction, a microdialysis probe was placed at the surgical site for PGE2 and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) measurements. RESULTS: The bupivacaine/rofecoxib group reported significantly less pain, as assessed by a visual analog scale, compared with the other three treatment groups over the first 4 h. However, the bupivacaine/placebo group reported significantly more pain at 24 h and PGE2 levels during the first 4 h were significantly higher than the other three treatment groups. Moreover, bupivacaine significantly increased COX-2 gene expression at 48 h as compared with the lidocaine/placebo group. Thromboxane levels were not significantly affected by any of the treatments, indicating that the effects seen were attributable to inhibition of COX-2, but not COX-1. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that bupivacaine stimulates COX-2 gene expression after tissue injury, which is associated with higher PGE2 production and pain after the local anesthetic effect dissipates.

18182964	Clonidine for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: II. ECG changes and adverse events analysis. OBJECTIVE: To examine the safety and tolerability of clonidine used alone or with methylphenidate in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). METHOD: In a 16-week multicenter, double-blind trial, 122 children with ADHD were randomly assigned to clonidine (n = 31), methylphenidate (n = 29), clonidine and methylphenidate (n = 32), or placebo (n = 30). Doses were flexibly titrated up to 0.6 mg/day for clonidine and 60 mg/day for methylphenidate (both with divided dosing). Groups were compared regarding adverse events and changes from baseline to week 16 in electrocardiograms and vital signs. RESULTS: There were more incidents of bradycardia in subjects treated with clonidine compared with those not treated with clonidine (17.5% versus 3.4%; p =.02), but no other significant group differences regarding electrocardiogram and other cardiovascular outcomes. There were no suggestions of interactions between clonidine and methylphenidate regarding cardiovascular outcomes. Moderate or severe adverse events were more common in subjects on clonidine (79.4% versus 49.2%; p =.0006) but not associated with higher rates of early study withdrawal. Drowsiness was common on clonidine, but generally resolved by 6 to 8 weeks. CONCLUSIONS: Clonidine, used alone or with methylphenidate, appears safe and well tolerated in childhood ADHD. Physicians prescribing clonidine should monitor for bradycardia and advise patients about the high likelihood of initial drowsiness.

18340638	Azathioprine-induced suicidal erythrocyte death. BACKGROUND: Azathioprine is widely used as an immunosuppressive drug. The side effects of azathioprine include anemia, which has been attributed to bone marrow suppression. Alternatively, anemia could result from accelerated suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, which is characterized by exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) at the erythrocyte surface and by cell shrinkage. METHODS: The present experiments explored whether azathioprine influences eryptosis. According to annexin V binding, erythrocytes from patients indeed showed a significant increase of PS exposure within 1 week of treatment with azathioprine. In a second series, cytosolic Ca2+ activity (Fluo3 fluorescence), cell volume (forward scatter), and PS-exposure (annexin V binding) were determined by FACS analysis in erythrocytes from healthy volunteers. RESULTS: Exposure to azathioprine (> or =2 microg/mL) for 48 hours increased cytosolic Ca2+ activity and annexin V binding and decreased forward scatter. The effect of azathioprine on both annexin V binding and forward scatter was significantly blunted in the nominal absence of extracellular Ca2+. CONCLUSIONS: Azathioprine triggers suicidal erythrocyte death, an effect presumably contributing to azathioprine-induced anemia.

18410508	Methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and microglial activation are not mediated by fractalkine receptor signaling. Methamphetamine (METH) damages dopamine (DA) nerve endings by a process that has been linked to microglial activation but the signaling pathways that mediate this response have not yet been delineated. Cardona et al. [Nat. Neurosci. 9 (2006), 917] recently identified the microglial-specific fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1) as an important mediator of MPTP-induced neurodegeneration of DA neurons. Because the CNS damage caused by METH and MPTP is highly selective for the DA neuronal system in mouse models of neurotoxicity, we hypothesized that the CX3CR1 plays a role in METH-induced neurotoxicity and microglial activation. Mice in which the CX3CR1 gene has been deleted and replaced with a cDNA encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) were treated with METH and examined for striatal neurotoxicity. METH depleted DA, caused microglial activation, and increased body temperature in CX3CR1 knockout mice to the same extent and over the same time course seen in wild-type controls. The effects of METH in CX3CR1 knockout mice were not gender-dependent and did not extend beyond the striatum. Striatal microglia expressing eGFP constitutively show morphological changes after METH that are characteristic of activation. This response was restricted to the striatum and contrasted sharply with unresponsive eGFP-microglia in surrounding brain areas that are not damaged by METH. We conclude from these studies that CX3CR1 signaling does not modulate METH neurotoxicity or microglial activation. Furthermore, it appears that striatal-resident microglia respond to METH with an activation cascade and then return to a surveying state without undergoing apoptosis or migration.

18422462	Spectrum of adverse events after generic HAART in southern Indian HIV-infected patients. To determine the incidence of clinically significant adverse events after long-term, fixed-dose, generic highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) use among HIV-infected individuals in South India, we examined the experiences of 3154 HIV-infected individuals who received a minimum of 3 months of generic HAART between February 1996 and December 2006 at a tertiary HIV care referral center in South India. The most common regimens were 3TC + d4T + nevirapine (NVP) (54.8%), zidovudine (AZT) + 3TC + NVP (14.5%), 3TC + d4T + efavirenz (EFV) (20.1%), and AZT + 3TC + EFV (5.4%). The most common adverse events and median CD4 at time of event were rash (15.2%; CD4, 285 cells/microL) and peripheral neuropathy (9.0% and 348 cells/microL). Clinically significant anemia (hemoglobin <7 g/dL) was observed in 5.4% of patients (CD4, 165 cells/microL) and hepatitis (clinical jaundice with alanine aminotransferase > 5 times upper limits of normal) in 3.5% of patients (CD4, 260 cells/microL). Women were significantly more likely to experience lactic acidosis, while men were significantly more likely to experience immune reconstitution syndrome (p < 0.05). Among the patients with 1 year of follow-up, NVP therapy was significantly associated with developing rash and d4T therapy with developing peripheral neuropathy (p < 0.05). Anemia and hepatitis often occur within 12 weeks of initiating generic HAART. Frequent and early monitoring for these toxicities is warranted in developing countries where generic HAART is increasingly available.

18442015	Protective effect of verapamil on gastric hemorrhagic ulcers in severe atherosclerotic rats. Studies concerning with pathogenesis of gastric hemorrhage and mucosal ulceration produced in atherosclerotic rats are lacking. The aim of this study is to examine the role of gastric acid back-diffusion, mast cell histamine release, lipid peroxide (LPO) generation and mucosal microvascular permeability in modulating gastric hemorrhage and ulcer in rats with atherosclerosis induced by coadministration of vitamin D2 and cholesterol. Additionally, the protective effect of verapamil on this ulcer model was evaluated. Male Wistar rats were challenged intragastrically once daily for 9 days with 1.0 ml/kg of corn oil containing vitamin D2 and cholesterol to induce atherosclerosis. Control rats received corn oil only. After gastric surgery, rat stomachs were irrigated for 3 h with either simulated gastric juice or normal saline. Gastric acid back-diffusion, mucosal LPO generation, histamine concentration, microvascular permeability, luminal hemoglobin content and ulcer areas were determined. Elevated atherosclerotic parameters, such as serum calcium, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein concentration were obtained in atherosclerotic rats. Severe gastric ulcers accompanied with increased ulcerogenic factors, including gastric acid back-diffusion, histamine release, LPO generation and luminal hemoglobin content were also observed in these rats. Moreover, a positive correlation of histamine to gastric hemorrhage and to ulcer was found in those atherosclerotic rats. This hemorrhagic ulcer and various ulcerogenic parameters were dose-dependently ameliorated by daily intragastric verapamil. Atherosclerosis could produce gastric hemorrhagic ulcer via aggravation of gastric acid back-diffusion, LPO generation, histamine release and microvascular permeability that could be ameliorated by verapamil in rats.

18544179	Omitting fentanyl reduces nausea and vomiting, without increasing pain, after sevoflurane for day surgery. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Despite advantages of induction and maintenance of anaesthesia with sevoflurane, postoperative nausea and vomiting occurs frequently. Fentanyl is a commonly used supplement that may contribute to this, although it may also improve analgesia. METHODS: This double-blind study examined the incidence and severity of postoperative nausea and vomiting and pain in the first 24 h after sevoflurane anaesthesia in 216 adult day surgery patients. Patients were randomly allocated to either receive or not receive 1 1 fentanyl, while a third group received dexamethasone in addition to fentanyl. RESULTS: Omission of fentanyl did not reduce the overall incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting, but did reduce the incidence of vomiting and/or moderate to severe nausea prior to discharge from 20% and 17% with fentanyl and fentanyl-dexamethasone, respectively, to 5% (P = 0.013). Antiemetic requirements were reduced from 24% and 31% to 7% (P = 0.0012). Dexamethasone had no significant effect on the incidence or severity of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Combining the two fentanyl groups revealed further significant benefits from the avoidance of opioids, reducing postoperative nausea and vomiting and nausea prior to discharge from 35% and 33% to 22% and 19% (P = 0.049 and P = 0.035), respectively, while nausea in the first 24 h was decreased from 42% to 27% (P = 0.034). Pain severity and analgesic requirements were unaffected by the omission of fentanyl. Fentanyl did reduce minor intraoperative movement but had no sevoflurane-sparing effect and increased respiratory depression, hypotension and bradycardia. CONCLUSION: As fentanyl exacerbated postoperative nausea and vomiting without an improvement in postoperative pain and also had adverse cardiorespiratory effects, it appears to be an unnecessary and possibly detrimental supplement to sevoflurane in day surgery.

18674790	High fat diet-fed obese rats are highly sensitive to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Often, chemotherapy by doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is limited due to life threatening cardiotoxicity in patients during and posttherapy. Recently, we have shown that moderate diet restriction remarkably protects against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. This cardioprotection is accompanied by decreased cardiac oxidative stress and triglycerides and increased cardiac fatty-acid oxidation, ATP synthesis, and upregulated JAK/STAT3 pathway. In the current study, we investigated whether a physiological intervention by feeding 40% high fat diet (HFD), which induces obesity in male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-275 g), sensitizes to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. A LD(10) dose (8 mg doxorubicin/kg, ip) administered on day 43 of the HFD feeding regimen led to higher cardiotoxicity, cardiac dysfunction, lipid peroxidation, and 80% mortality in the obese (OB) rats in the absence of any significant renal or hepatic toxicity. Doxorubicin toxicokinetics studies revealed no change in accumulation of doxorubicin and doxorubicinol (toxic metabolite) in the normal diet-fed (ND) and OB hearts. Mechanistic studies revealed that OB rats are sensitized due to: (1) higher oxyradical stress leading to upregulation of uncoupling proteins 2 and 3, (2) downregulation of cardiac peroxisome proliferators activated receptor-alpha, (3) decreased plasma adiponectin levels, (4) decreased cardiac fatty-acid oxidation (666.9+/-14.0 nmol/min/g heart in ND versus 400.2+/-11.8 nmol/min/g heart in OB), (5) decreased mitochondrial AMP-alpha2 protein kinase, and (6) 86% drop in cardiac ATP levels accompanied by decreased ATP/ADP ratio after doxorubicin administration. Decreased cardiac erythropoietin and increased SOCS3 further downregulated the cardioprotective JAK/STAT3 pathway. In conclusion, HFD-induced obese rats are highly sensitized to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity by substantially downregulating cardiac mitochondrial ATP generation, increasing oxidative stress and downregulating the JAK/STAT3 pathway.

18752389	Simvastatin-ezetimibe-induced hepatic failure necessitating liver transplantation. Abstract Serum aminotransferase elevations are a commonly known adverse effect of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy. However, hepatotoxic events have not been widely published with ezetimibe or the combination agent simvastatin-ezetimibe. We describe a 70-year-old Hispanic woman who developed fulminant hepatic failure necessitating liver transplantation 10 weeks after conversion from simvastatin 40 mg/day to simvastatin 10 mg-ezetimibe 40 mg/day. The patient's lipid panel had been maintained with simvastatin for 18 months before the conversion without evidence of hepatotoxicity. A routine laboratory work-up 10 weeks after conversion revealed elevated serum aminotransferase levels. Simvastatinezetimibe and escitalopram (which she was taking for depression) were discontinued, and other potential causes of hepatotoxicity were excluded. A repeat work-up revealed further elevations in aminotransferase levels, and liver biopsy revealed evidence of moderate-to-severe drug toxicity. She underwent liver transplantation with an uneventful postoperative course. Her aminotransferase levels returned to normal by postoperative day 23, and her 2-year follow-up showed no adverse events. Ezetimibe undergoes extensive glucuronidation by uridine diphosphate glucoronosyltransferases (UGT) in the intestine and liver and may have inhibited the glucuronidation of simvastatin hydroxy acid, resulting in increased simvastatin exposure and subsequent hepatotoxicity. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of simvastatin-ezetimibe-induced liver failure that resulted in liver transplantation. We postulate that the mechanism of the simvastatinezetimibe-induced hepatotoxicity is the increased simvastatin exposure by ezetimibe inhibition of UGT enzymes. Clinicians should be aware of potential hepatotoxicity with simvastatin-ezetimibe especially in elderly patients and should carefully monitor serum aminotransferase levels when starting therapy and titrating the dosage.

18754075	Massive proteinuria and acute renal failure after oral bisphosphonate (alendronate) administration in a patient with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. A 61-year-old Japanese man with nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis was initially responding well to steroid therapy. The amount of daily urinary protein decreased from 15.6 to 2.8 g. Within 14 days of the oral bisphosphonate (alendronate sodium) administration, the amount of daily urinary protein increased rapidly up to 12.8 g with acute renal failure. After discontinuing the oral alendronate, the patient underwent six cycles of hemodialysis and four cycles of LDL apheresis. Urinary volume and serum creatinine levels recovered to the normal range, with urinary protein disappearing completely within 40 days. This report demonstrates that not only intravenous, but also oral bisphosphonates can aggravate proteinuria and acute renal failure.

18945509	Risk of coronary artery disease associated with initial sulphonylurea treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes: a matched case-control study. AIMS: This study sought to assess the risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD) associated with initial treatment of type 2 diabetes with different sulphonylureas. METHODS: In type 2 diabetic patients, cases who developed CAD were compared retrospectively with controls that did not. The 20-year risk of CAD at diagnosis of diabetes, using the UKPDS risk engine, was used to match cases with controls. RESULTS: The 76 cases of CAD were compared with 152 controls. The hazard of developing CAD (95% CI) associated with initial treatment increased by 2.4-fold (1.3-4.3, P=0.004) with glibenclamide; 2-fold (0.9-4.6, P=0.099) with glipizide; 2.9-fold (1.6-5.1, P=0.000) with either, and was unchanged with metformin. The hazard decreased 0.3-fold (0.7-1.7, P=0.385) with glimepiride, 0.4-fold (0.7-1.3, P=0.192) with gliclazide, and 0.4-fold (0.7-1.1, P=0.09) with either. CONCLUSIONS: Initiating treatment of type 2 diabetes with glibenclamide or glipizide is associated with increased risk of CAD in comparison to gliclazide or glimepiride. If confirmed, this may be important because most Indian patients receive the cheaper older sulphonylureas, and present guidelines do not distinguish between individual agents.

18987260	Reduced progression of adriamycin nephropathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats treated by losartan. BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to investigate the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II type-1 receptor blocker, losartan, and its potential in slowing down renal disease progression in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy. METHODS: Six-month-old female SHR were randomly selected in six groups. Two control groups (SH(6), SH(12)) received vehicle. Groups ADR(6), ADR+LOS(6) and ADR(12), and ADR+LOS(12) received ADR (2 mg/kg/b.w. i.v.) twice in a 3-week interval. Group ADR+LOS(6) received losartan (10 mg/kg/b.w./day by gavages) for 6 weeks and group ADR+LOS(12) for 12 weeks after second injection of ADR. Animals were killed after 6 or 12 weeks, respectively. Haemodynamic measurements were performed on anaesthetized animals, blood and urine samples were taken for biochemical analysis and the left kidney was processed for morphological studies. RESULTS: Short-term losartan treatment, besides antihypertensive effect, improved glomerular filtration rate and ameliorated glomerulosclerosis resulting in decreased proteinuria. Prolonged treatment with losartan showed further reduction of glomerulosclerosis associated with reduced progression of tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis, thus preventing heavy proteinuria and chronic renal failure. Losartan reduced uraemia and increased urea clearance in advanced ADR nephropathy in SHR. Histological examination showed that losartan could prevent tubular atrophy, interstitial infiltration and fibrosis in ADR nephropathy. CONCLUSION: Losartan reduces the rate of progression of ADR-induced focal segmental glomerulosclerosis to end-stage renal disease in SHR.

19058010	Effect of green tea and vitamin E combination in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarction in rats. The present study was aimed to investigate the combined effects of green tea and vitamin E on heart weight, body weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation, endogenous antioxidants and membrane bound ATPases in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Adult male albino rats, treated with ISO (200 mg/kg, s.c.) for 2 days at an interval of 24 h caused a significant (P<0.05) elevation of heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation and Ca+2 ATPase level whereas there was a significant (P<0.05) decrease in body weight, endogenous antioxidants, Na+/ K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase levels. Administration of green tea (100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and vitamin E (100 mg/kg/day, p.o.) together for 30 consecutive days and challenged with ISO on the day 29th and 30th, showed a significant (P<0.05) decrease in heart weight, serum marker enzymes, lipid peroxidation, Ca+2 ATPase and a significant increase in the body weight, endogenous antioxidants, Na+/K+ ATPase and Mg+2 ATPase when compared with ISO treated group and green tea or vitamin E alone treated groups. These findings indicate the synergistic protective effect of green tea and vitamin E during ISO induced myocardial infarction in rats.

19108278	The biological properties of the optical isomers of propranolol and their effects on cardiac arrhythmias. 1. The optical isomers of propranolol have been compared for their beta-blocking and antiarrhythmic activities.2. In blocking the positive inotropic and chronotropic responses to isoprenaline, (+)-propranolol had less than one hundredth the potency of (-)-propranolol. At dose levels of (+)-propranolol which attenuated the responses to isoprenaline, there was a significant prolongation of the PR interval of the electrocardiogram.3. The metabolic responses to isoprenaline in dogs (an increase in circulating glucose, lactate and free fatty acids) were all blocked by (-)-propranolol. (+)-Propranolol had no effect on fatty acid mobilization but significantly reduced the increments in both lactate and glucose.4. Both isomers of propranolol possessed similar depressant potency on isolated atrial muscle taken from guinea-pigs.5. The isomers of propranolol exhibited similar local anaesthetic potencies on an isolated frog nerve preparation at a level approximately three times that of procaine. The racemic compound was significantly less potent than either isomer.6. Both isomers of propranolol were capable of preventing adrenaline-induced cardiac arrhythmias in cats anaesthetized with halothane, but the mean dose of (-)-propranolol was 0.09+/-0.02 mg/kg whereas that of (+)-propranolol was 4.2+/-1.2 mg/kg. At the effective dose level of (+)-propranolol there was a significant prolongation of the PR interval of the electrocardiogram. Blockade of arrhythmias with both isomers was surmountable by increasing the dose of adrenaline.7. Both isomers of propranolol were also capable of reversing ventricular tachycardia caused by ouabain in anaesthetized cats and dogs. The dose of (-)-propranolol was significantly smaller than that of (+)-propranolol in both species but much higher than that required to produce evidence of beta-blockade.8. The implications of these results are discussed.

19445921	Cardioprotective effect of salvianolic acid A on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The present study was designed to evaluate the cardioprotective potential of salvianolic acid A on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Hemodynamic parameters and lead II electrocardiograph were monitored and recorded continuously. Cardiac marker enzymes and antioxidative parameters in serum and heart tissues were measured. Assay for mitochondrial respiratory function and histopathological examination of heart tissues were performed. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed significant increases in the levels of lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase, creatine kinase and malondialdehyde and significant decreases in the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase in serum and heart. These rats also showed declines in left ventricular systolic pressure, maximum and minimum rate of developed left ventricular pressure, and elevation of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and ST-segment. In addition, mitochondrial respiratory dysfunction characterized by decreased respiratory control ratio and ADP/O was observed in isoproterenol-treated rats. Administration of salvianolic acid A for a period of 8 days significantly attenuated isoproterenol-induced cardiac dysfunction and myocardial injury and improved mitochondrial respiratory function. The protective role of salvianolic acid A against isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage was further confirmed by histopathological examination. The results of our study suggest that salvianolic acid A possessing antioxidant activity has a significant protective effect against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction.

19631624	Learning and memory deficits in ecstasy users and their neural correlates during a face-learning task. It has been consistently shown that ecstasy users display impairments in learning and memory performance. In addition, working memory processing in ecstasy users has been shown to be associated with neural alterations in hippocampal and/or cortical regions as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using functional imaging and a face-learning task, we investigated neural correlates of encoding and recalling face-name associations in 20 recreational drug users whose predominant drug use was ecstasy and 20 controls. To address the potential confounding effects of the cannabis use of the ecstasy using group, a second analysis included 14 previously tested cannabis users (Nestor, L., Roberts, G., Garavan, H., Hester, R., 2008. Deficits in learning and memory: parahippocampal hyperactivity and frontocortical hypoactivity in cannabis users. Neuroimage 40, 1328-1339). Ecstasy users performed significantly worse in learning and memory compared to controls and cannabis users. A conjunction analysis of the encode and recall phases of the task revealed ecstasy-specific hyperactivity in bilateral frontal regions, left temporal, right parietal, bilateral temporal, and bilateral occipital brain regions. Ecstasy-specific hypoactivity was evident in the right dorsal anterior cingulated cortex (ACC) and left posterior cingulated cortex. In both ecstasy and cannabis groups brain activation was decreased in the right medial frontal gyrus, left parahippocampal gyrus, left dorsal cingulate gyrus, and left caudate. These results elucidated ecstasy-related deficits, only some of which might be attributed to cannabis use. These ecstasy-specific effects may be related to the vulnerability of isocortical and allocortical regions to the neurotoxic effects of ecstasy.

19692487	Mice lacking mPGES-1 are resistant to lithium-induced polyuria. Cyclooxygenase-2 activity is required for the development of lithium-induced polyuria. However, the involvement of a specific, terminal prostaglandin (PG) isomerase has not been evaluated. The present study was undertaken to assess lithium-induced polyuria in mice deficient in microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1). A 2-wk administration of LiCl (4 mmol.kg(-1).day(-1) ip) in mPGES-1 +/+ mice led to a marked polyuria with hyposmotic urine. This was associated with elevated renal mPGES-1 protein expression and increased urine PGE(2) excretion. In contrast, mPGES-1 -/- mice were largely resistant to lithium-induced polyuria and a urine concentrating defect, accompanied by nearly complete blockade of high urine PGE(2) and cAMP output. Immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative (q) RT-PCR consistently detected a significant decrease in aquaporin-2 (AQP2) protein expression in both the renal cortex and medulla of lithium-treated +/+ mice. This decrease was significantly attenuated in the -/- mice. qRT-PCR detected similar patterns of changes in AQP2 mRNA in the medulla but not in the cortex. Similarly, the total protein abundance of the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2) in the medulla but not in the cortex of the +/+ mice was significantly reduced by lithium treatment. In contrast, the dowregulation of renal medullary NKCC2 expression was significantly attenuated in the -/- mice. We conclude that mPGES-1-derived PGE(2) mediates lithium-induced polyuria likely via inhibition of AQP2 and NKCC2 expression.

19719056	Dextran-etodolac conjugates: synthesis, in vitro and in vivo evaluation. Etodolac (E), is a non-narcotic analgesic and antiinflammatory drug. A biodegradable polymer dextran has been utilized as a carrier for synthesis of etodolac-dextran conjugates (ED) to improve its aqueous solubility and reduce gastrointestinal side effects. An activated moiety, i.e. N-acylimidazole derivative of etodolac (EAI), was condensed with the polysaccharide polymer dextran of different molecular weights (40000, 60000, 110000 and 200000). IR spectral data confirmed formation of ester bonding in the conjugates. Etodolac contents were evaluated by UV-spectrophotometric analysis. The molecular weights were determined by measuring viscosity using the Mark-Howink-Sakurada equation. In vitro hydrolysis of ED was done in aqueous buffers (pH 1.2, 7.4, 9) and in 80% (v/v) human plasma (pH 7.4). At pH 9, a higher rate of etodolac release from ED was observed as compared to aqueous buffer of pH 7.4 and 80% human plasma (pH 7.4), following first-order kinetics. In vivo investigations were performed in animals. Acute analgesic and antiinflammatory activities were ascertained using acetic acid induced writhing model (mice) and carrageenan-induced rat paw edema model, respectively. In comparison to control, E and ED1-ED4 showed highly significant analgesic and antiinflammatory activities (p <0.001). Biological evaluation suggested that conjugates (ED1-ED4) retained comparable analgesic and antiinflammatory activities with remarkably reduced ulcerogenicity as compared to their parent drug--etodolac.

19721134	The antiarrhythmic effect and possible ionic mechanisms of pilocarpine on animal models. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of pilocarpine and explore the underlying ionic mechanism, using both aconitine-induced rat and ouabain-induced guinea pig arrhythmia models. Confocal microscopy was used to measure intracellular free-calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) in isolated myocytes. The current data showed that pilocarpine significantly delayed onset of arrhythmias, decreased the time course of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, reduced arrhythmia score, and increased the survival time of arrhythmic rats and guinea pigs. [Ca(2+)](i) overload induced by aconitine or ouabain was reduced in isolated myocytes pretreated with pilocarpine. Moreover, M(3)-muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist 4-DAMP (4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine-methiodide) partially abolished the beneficial effects of pilocarpine. These data suggest that pilocarpine produced antiarrhythmic actions on arrhythmic rat and guinea pig models induced by aconitine or ouabain via stimulating the cardiac M(3)-mAChR. The mechanism may be related to the improvement of Ca(2+) handling.

19923525	Nimodipine prevents memory impairment caused by nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in adult mice. BACKGROUND: Hypotension and a resultant decrease in cerebral blood flow have been implicated in the development of cognitive dysfunction. We tested the hypothesis that nimodipine (NIMO) administered at the onset of nitroglycerin (NTG)-induced hypotension would preserve long-term associative memory. METHODS: The passive avoidance (PA) paradigm was used to assess memory retention. For PA training, latencies (seconds) were recorded for entry from a suspended platform into a Plexiglas tube where a shock was automatically delivered. Latencies were recorded 48 h later for a testing trial. Ninety-six Swiss-Webster mice (30-35 g, 6-8 wk), were randomized into 6 groups 1) saline (control), 2) NTG immediately after learning, 3) NTG 3 h after learning, 4) NTG and NIMO, 5) vehicle, and 6) NIMO alone. The extent of hypotension and changes in brain tissue oxygenation (PbtO(2)) and in cerebral blood flow were studied in a separate group of animals. RESULTS: All groups exhibited similar training latencies (17.0 +/- 4.6 s). Mice subjected to hypotensive episodes showed a significant decrease in latency time (178 +/- 156 s) compared with those injected with saline, NTG + NIMO, or delayed NTG (580 +/- 81 s, 557 +/- 67 s, and 493 +/- 146 s, respectively). A Kruskal-Wallis 1-way analysis of variance indicated a significant difference among the 4 treatment groups (H = 15.34; P < 0.001). In a separate group of mice not subjected to behavioral studies, the same dose of NTG (n = 3) and NTG + NIMO (n = 3) caused mean arterial blood pressure to decrease from 85.9 +/- 3.8 mm Hg sem to 31.6 +/- 0.8 mm Hg sem and from 86.2 +/- 3.7 mm Hg sem to 32.6 +/- 0.2 mm Hg sem, respectively. Mean arterial blood pressure in mice treated with NIMO alone decreased from 88.1 +/- 3.8 mm Hg to 80.0 +/- 2.9 mm Hg. The intergroup difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). PbtO(2) decreased from 51.7 +/- 4.5 mm Hg sem to 33.8 +/- 5.2 mm Hg sem in the NTG group and from 38.6 +/- 6.1 mm Hg sem to 25.4 +/- 2.0 mm Hg sem in the NTG + NIMO groups, respectively. There were no significant differences among groups. CONCLUSION: In a PA retention paradigm, the injection of NTG immediately after learning produced a significant impairment of long-term associative memory in mice, whereas delayed induced hypotension had no effect. NIMO attenuated the disruption in consolidation of long-term memory caused by NTG but did not improve latency in the absence of hypotension. The observed effect of NIMO may have been attributable to the preservation of calcium homeostasis during hypotension, because there were no differences in the PbtO(2) indices among groups.

20080983	Normalizing effects of modafinil on sleep in chronic cocaine users. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of morning-dosed modafinil on sleep and daytime sleepiness in chronic cocaine users. METHOD: Twenty cocaine-dependent participants were randomly assigned to receive modafinil, 400 mg (N=10), or placebo (N=10) every morning at 7:30 a.m. for 16 days in an inpatient, double-blind randomized trial. Participants underwent polysomnographic sleep recordings on days 1 to 3, 7 to 9, and 14 to 16 (first, second, and third weeks of abstinence). The Multiple Sleep Latency Test was performed at 11:30 a.m., 2:00 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. on days 2, 8, and 15. For comparison of sleep architecture variables, 12 healthy comparison participants underwent a single night of experimental polysomnography that followed 1 night of accommodation polysomnography. RESULTS: Progressive abstinence from cocaine was associated with worsening of all measured polysomnographic sleep outcomes. Compared with placebo, modafinil decreased nighttime sleep latency and increased slow-wave sleep time in cocaine-dependent participants. The effect of modafinil interacted with the abstinence week and was associated with longer total sleep time and shorter REM sleep latency in the third week of abstinence. Comparison of slow-wave sleep time, total sleep time, and sleep latency in cocaine-dependent and healthy participants revealed a normalizing effect of modafinil in cocaine-dependent participants. Modafinil was associated with increased daytime sleep latency, as measured by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, and a nearly significant decrease in subjective daytime sleepiness. CONCLUSIONS: Morning-dosed modafinil promotes nocturnal sleep, normalizes sleep architecture, and decreases daytime sleepiness in abstinent cocaine users. These effects may be relevant in the treatment of cocaine dependence.

20447294	Studies of synergy between morphine and a novel sodium channel blocker, CNSB002, in rat models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. OBJECTIVE: This study determined the antihyperalgesic effect of CNSB002, a sodium channel blocker with antioxidant properties given alone and in combinations with morphine in rat models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. DESIGN: Dose response curves for nonsedating doses of morphine and CNSB002 given intraperitoneally alone and together in combinations were constructed for antihyperalgesic effect using paw withdrawal from noxious heat in two rat pain models: carrageenan-induced paw inflammation and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy. RESULTS: The maximum nonsedating doses were: morphine, 3.2 mg/kg; CNSB002 10.0 mg/kg; 5.0 mg/kg CNSB002 with morphine 3.2 mg/kg in combination. The doses calculated to cause 50% reversal of hyperalgesia (ED50) were 7.54 (1.81) and 4.83 (1.54) in the carrageenan model and 44.18 (1.37) and 9.14 (1.24) in the STZ-induced neuropathy model for CNSB002 and morphine, respectively (mg/kg; mean, SEM). These values were greater than the maximum nonsedating doses. The ED50 values for morphine when given in combination with CNSB002 (5 mg/kg) were less than the maximum nonsedating dose: 0.56 (1.55) in the carrageenan model and 1.37 (1.23) in the neuropathy model (mg/kg; mean, SEM). The antinociception after morphine (3.2 mg/kg) was increased by co-administration with CNSB002 from 28.0 and 31.7% to 114.6 and 56.9% reversal of hyperalgesia in the inflammatory and neuropathic models, respectively (P < 0.01; one-way analysis of variance-significantly greater than either drug given alone). CONCLUSIONS: The maximum antihyperalgesic effect achievable with nonsedating doses of morphine may be increased significantly when the drug is used in combination with CNSB002.

20510337	Coenzyme Q10 treatment ameliorates acute cisplatin nephrotoxicity in mice. The nephroprotective effect of coenzyme Q10 was investigated in mice with acute renal injury induced by a single i.p. injection of cisplatin (5 mg/kg). Coenzyme Q10 treatment (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.) was applied for 6 consecutive days, starting 1 day before cisplatin administration. Coenzyme Q10 significantly reduced blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels which were increased by cisplatin. Coenzyme Q10 significantly compensated deficits in the antioxidant defense mechanisms (reduced glutathione level and superoxide dismutase activity), suppressed lipid peroxidation, decreased the elevations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, nitric oxide and platinum ion concentration, and attenuated the reductions of selenium and zinc ions in renal tissue resulted from cisplatin administration. Also, histopathological renal tissue damage mediated by cisplatin was ameliorated by coenzyme Q10 treatment. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that coenzyme Q10 significantly decreased the cisplatin-induced overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, nuclear factor-kappaB, caspase-3 and p53 in renal tissue. It was concluded that coenzyme Q10 represents a potential therapeutic option to protect against acute cisplatin nephrotoxicity commonly encountered in clinical practice.

20520283	Efficacy and safety of asenapine in a placebo- and haloperidol-controlled trial in patients with acute exacerbation of schizophrenia. Asenapine is approved by the Food and Drugs Administration in adults for acute treatment of schizophrenia or of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features. In a double-blind 6-week trial, 458 patients with acute schizophrenia were randomly assigned to fixed-dose treatment with asenapine at 5 mg twice daily (BID), asenapine at 10 mg BID, placebo, or haloperidol at 4 mg BID (to verify assay sensitivity). With last observations carried forward (LOCF), mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score reductions from baseline to endpoint were significantly greater with asenapine at 5 mg BID (-16.2) and haloperidol (-15.4) than placebo (-10.7; both P < 0.05); using mixed model for repeated measures (MMRM), changes at day 42 were significantly greater with asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID (-21.3 and -19.4, respectively) and haloperidol (-20.0) than placebo (-14.6; all P < 0.05). On the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale positive subscale, all treatments were superior to placebo with LOCF and MMRM; asenapine at 5 mg BID was superior to placebo on the negative subscale with MMRM and on the general psychopathology subscale with LOCF and MMRM. Treatment-related adverse events (AEs) occurred in 44% and 52%, 57%, and 41% of the asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively. Extrapyramidal symptoms reported as AEs occurred in 15% and 18%, 34%, and 10% of the asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively. Across all groups, no more than 5% of patients had clinically significant weight change. Post hoc analyses indicated that efficacy was similar with asenapine and haloperidol; greater contrasts were seen in AEs, especially extrapyramidal symptoms.

20528871	Salvage therapy with nelarabine, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide in relapsed/refractory paediatric T-cell lymphoblastic leukaemia and lymphoma. A combination of 5 d of nelarabine (AraG) with 5 d of etoposide (VP) and cyclophosphamide (CPM) and prophylactic intrathecal chemotherapy was used as salvage therapy in seven children with refractory or relapsed T-cell leukaemia or lymphoma. The most common side effects attributable to the AraG included Grade 2 and 3 sensory and motor neuropathy and musculoskeletal pain. Haematological toxicity was greater for the combination than AraG alone, although median time to neutrophil and platelet recovery was consistent with other salvage therapies. All patients had some response to the combined therapy and five of the seven went into complete remission after one or two courses of AraG/VP/CPM. Our experience supports the safety of giving AraG as salvage therapy in synchrony with etoposide and cyclophosphamide, although neurological toxicity must be closely monitored.

20533999	Dopamine is not essential for the development of methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. It is widely believed that dopamine (DA) mediates methamphetamine (METH)-induced toxicity to brain dopaminergic neurons, because drugs that interfere with DA neurotransmission decrease toxicity, whereas drugs that increase DA neurotransmission enhance toxicity. However, temperature effects of drugs that have been used to manipulate brain DA neurotransmission confound interpretation of the data. Here we show that the recently reported ability of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine to reverse the protective effect of alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine on METH-induced DA neurotoxicity is also confounded by drug effects on body temperature. Further, we show that mice genetically engineered to be deficient in brain DA develop METH neurotoxicity, as long as the thermic effects of METH are preserved. In addition, we demonstrate that mice genetically engineered to have unilateral brain DA deficits develop METH-induced dopaminergic deficits that are of comparable magnitude on both sides of the brain. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that DA is not essential for the development of METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity and suggest that mechanisms independent of DA warrant more intense investigation.

20558148	Glutamatergic neurotransmission mediated by NMDA receptors in the inferior colliculus can modulate haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The inferior colliculus (IC) is primarily involved in the processing of auditory information, but it is distinguished from other auditory nuclei in the brainstem by its connections with structures of the motor system. Functional evidence relating the IC to motor behavior derives from experiments showing that activation of the IC by electrical stimulation or excitatory amino acid microinjection causes freezing, escape-like behavior, and immobility. However, the nature of this immobility is still unclear. The present study examined the influence of excitatory amino acid-mediated mechanisms in the IC on the catalepsy induced by the dopamine receptor blocker haloperidol administered systemically (1 or 0.5 mg/kg) in rats. Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was challenged with prior intracollicular microinjections of glutamate NMDA receptor antagonists, MK-801 (15 or 30 mmol/0.5 microl) and AP7 (10 or 20 nmol/0.5 microl), or of the NMDA receptor agonist N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA, 20 or 30 nmol/0.5 microl). The results showed that intracollicular microinjection of MK-801 and AP7 previous to systemic injections of haloperidol significantly attenuated the catalepsy, as indicated by a reduced latency to step down from a horizontal bar. Accordingly, intracollicular microinjection of NMDA increased the latency to step down the bar. These findings suggest that glutamate-mediated mechanisms in the neural circuits at the IC level influence haloperidol-induced catalepsy and participate in the regulation of motor activity.

20667451	Curcumin ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and oxidative damage in phenobarbitone and carbamazepine administered rats. The antiepileptic drugs, phenobarbitone and carbamazepine are well known to cause cognitive impairment on chronic use. The increase in free radical generation has been implicated as one of the important mechanisms of cognitive impairment by antiepileptic drugs. Curcumin has shown antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and neuro-protective properties. Therefore, the present study was carried out to investigate the effect of chronic curcumin administration on phenobarbitone- and carbamazepine-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. Pharmacokinetic interactions of curcumin with phenobarbitone and carbamazepine were also studied. Vehicle/drugs were administered daily for 21days to male Wistar rats. Passive avoidance paradigm and elevated plus maze test were used to assess cognitive function. At the end of study period, serum phenobarbitone and carbamazepine, whole brain malondialdehyde and reduced glutathione levels were estimated. The administration of phenobarbitone and carbamazepine for 21days caused a significant impairment of learning and memory as well as an increased oxidative stress. Concomitant curcumin administration prevented the cognitive impairment and decreased the increased oxidative stress induced by these antiepileptic drugs. Curcumin co-administration did not cause any significant alteration in the serum concentrations of both phenobarbitone as well as carbamazepine. These results show that curcumin has beneficial effect in mitigating the deterioration of cognitive functions and oxidative damage in rats treated with phenobarbitone and carbamazepine without significantly altering their serum concentrations. The findings suggest that curcumin can be considered as a potential safe and effective adjuvant to phenobarbitone and carbamazepine therapy in preventing cognitive impairment associated with these drugs.

20683499	Effects of active constituents of Crocus sativus L., crocin on streptozocin-induced model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease in male rats. BACKGROUND: The involvement of water-soluble carotenoids, crocins, as the main and active components of Crocus sativus L. extract in learning and memory processes has been proposed. In the present study, the effect of crocins on sporadic Alzheimer's disease induced by intracerebroventricular (icv) streptozocin (STZ) in male rats was investigated. METHODS: Male adult Wistar rats (n = 90 and 260-290 g) were divided into 1, control; 2 and 3, crocins (15 and 30 mg/kg); 4, STZ; 5 and 6, STZ + crocins (15 and 30 mg/kg) groups. In Alzheimer's disease groups, rats were injected with STZ-icv bilaterally (3 mg/kg) in first day and 3 days later, a similar STZ-icv application was repeated. In STZ + crocin animal groups, crocin was applied in doses of 15 and 30 mg/kg, i.p., one day pre-surgery and continued for three weeks. Prescription of crocin in each dose was repeated once for two days. However, the learning and memory performance was assessed using passive avoidance paradigm, and for spatial cognition evaluation, Y-maze task was used. RESULTS: It was found out that crocin (30 mg/kg)-treated STZ-injected rats show higher correct choices and lower errors in Y-maze than vehicle-treated STZ-injected rats. In addition, crocin in the mentioned dose could significantly attenuated learning and memory impairment in treated STZ-injected group in passive avoidance test. CONCLUSION: Therefore, these results demonstrate the effectiveness of crocin (30 mg/kg) in antagonizing the cognitive deficits caused by STZ-icv in rats and its potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.

21195121	The role of nitric oxide in convulsions induced by lindane in rats. Lindane is an organochloride pesticide and scabicide. It evokes convulsions mainly trough the blockage of GABA(A) receptors. Nitric oxide (NO), gaseous neurotransmitter, has contradictor role in epileptogenesis due to opposite effects of L-arginine, precursor of NO syntheses (NOS), and L-NAME (NOS inhibitor) observed in different epilepsy models. The aim of the current study was to determine the effects of NO on the behavioral and EEG characteristics of lindane-induced epilepsy in male Wistar albino rats. The administration of L-arginine (600, 800 and 1000 mg/kg, i.p.) in dose-dependent manner significantly increased convulsion incidence and severity and shortened latency time to first convulsion elicited by lower lindane dose (4 mg/kg, i.p.). On the contrary, pretreatment with L-NAME (500, 700 and 900 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased convulsion incidence and severity and prolonged latency time to convulsion following injection with a convulsive dose of lindane (8 mg/kg, i.p.). EEG analyses showed increase of number and duration of ictal periods in EEG of rats receiving l-arginine prior to lindane and decrease of this number in rats pretreated with L-NAME. These results support the conclusion that NO plays a role of endogenous convulsant in rat model of lindane seizures.

23949582	The cytogenetic action of ifosfamide, mesna, and their combination on peripheral rabbit lymphocytes: an in vivo/in vitro cytogenetic study. Ifosfamide (IFO) is an alkylating nitrogen mustard, administrated as an antineoplasmic agent. It is characterized by its intense urotoxic action, leading to hemorrhagic cystitis. This side effect of IFO raises the requirement for the co-administration with sodium 2-sulfanylethanesulfonate (Mesna) aiming to avoid or minimize this effect. IFO and Mesna were administrated separately on rabbit's lymphocytes in vivo, which were later developed in vitro. Cytogenetic markers for sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs), proliferation rate index (PRI) and Mitotic Index were recorded. Mesna's action, in conjunction with IFO reduces the frequency of SCEs, in comparison with the SCEs recordings obtained when IFO is administered alone. In addition to this, when high concentrations of Mesna were administered alone significant reductions of the PRI were noted, than with IFO acting at the same concentration on the lymphocytes. Mesna significantly reduces IFO's genotoxicity, while when administered in high concentrations it acts in an inhibitory fashion on the cytostatic action of the drug.

24132704	Crocin improves lipid dysregulation in subacute diazinon exposure through ERK1/2 pathway in rat liver. INTRODUCTION: Diazinon Yis one of the most broadly used organophosphorus insecticides in agriculture. It has been shown that exposure to diazinon may interfere with lipid metabolism. Moreover, the hypolipidemic effect of crocin has been established. Earlier studies revealed the major role of Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathways in low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLr) expression. The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in the regulation of lipid metabolism, ERK and LDLr expression in the liver of rats exposed to subacute diazinon. Furthermore ameliorating effect of crocin on diazinon induced disturbed cholesterol homeostasis was studied. METHODS: 24 Rats were divided into 4 groups and received following treatments for 4 weeks; Corn oil (control), diazinon (15mg/kg per day, orally) and crocin (12.5 and 25mg/kg per day, intraperitoneally) in combination with diazinon (15 mg/kg). The levels of cholesterol, triglyceride and LDL in blood of rats were analyzed. Moreover mRNA levels of LDLr and ERK1/2 as well as protein levels of total and activated forms of ERK1/2 in rat liver were evaluated by Western blotting and quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction analysis. RESULTS: Our data showed that subacute exposure to diazinon significantly increased concentrations of cholesterol, triglyceride and LDL. Moreover diazinon decreased ERK1/2 protein phosphorylation and LDLr transcript. Crocin reduced inhibition of ERK activation and diazinon-induced hyperlipemia and increased levels of LDLr transcript. CONCLUSIONS: Crocin may be considered as a novel protective agent in diazinon-induced hyperlipemia through modulating of ERK pathway and increase of LDLr expression.

24309294	Cholecystokinin-octapeptide restored morphine-induced hippocampal long-term potentiation impairment in rats. Cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), which is a typical brain-gut peptide, exerts a wide range of biological activities on the central nervous system. We have previously reported that CCK-8 significantly alleviated morphine-induced amnesia and reversed spine density decreases in the CA1 region of the hippocampus in morphine-treated animals. Here, we investigated the effects of CCK-8 on long-term potentiation (LTP) in the lateral perforant path (LPP)-granule cell synapse of rat dentate gyrus (DG) in acute saline or morphine-treated rats. Population spikes (PS), which were evoked by stimulation of the LPP, were recorded in the DG region. Acute morphine (30mg/kg, s.c.) treatment significantly attenuated hippocampal LTP and CCK-8 (1ug, i.c.v.) restored the amplitude of PS that was attenuated by morphine injection. Furthermore, microinjection of CCK-8 (0.1 and 1ug, i.c.v.) also significantly augmented hippocampal LTP in saline-treated (1ml/kg, s.c.) rats. Pre-treatment of the CCK2 receptor antagonist L-365,260 (10ug, i.c.v) reversed the effects of CCK-8, but the CCK1 receptor antagonist L-364,718 (10ug, i.c.v) did not. The present results demonstrate that CCK-8 attenuates the effect of morphine on hippocampal LTP through CCK2 receptors and suggest an ameliorative function of CCK-8 on morphine-induced memory impairment.

24341598	Comparison of effects of isotonic sodium chloride with diltiazem in prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy. INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) significantly increases the morbidity and mortality of patients. The aim of this study is to investigate and compare the protective effects of isotonic sodium chloride with sodium bicarbonate infusion and isotonic sodium chloride infusion with diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker, in preventing CIN. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our study included patients who were administered 30-60 mL of iodinated contrast agent for percutaneous coronary angiography (PCAG), all with creatinine values between 1.1 and 3.1 mg/dL. Patients were divided into three groups and each group had 20 patients. The first group of patients was administered isotonic sodium chloride; the second group was administered a solution that of 5% dextrose and sodium bicarbonate, while the third group was administered isotonic sodium chloride before and after the contrast injection. The third group received an additional injection of diltiazem the day before and first 2 days after the contrast injection. All of the patients' plasma blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels were measured on the second and seventh day after the administration of intravenous contrast material. RESULTS: The basal creatinine levels were similar for all three groups (p > 0.05). Among a total of 60 patients included in the study, 16 patients developed acute renal failure (ARF) on the second day after contrast material was injected (26.6%). The number of patients who developed ARF on the second day after the injection in the first group was five (25%), in the second group was six (30%) and the third group was five (25%) (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: There was no significant difference between isotonic sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and isotonic sodium chloride with diltiazem application in prevention of CIN.

24535067	Prevention of etomidate-induced myoclonus: which is superior: Fentanyl, midazolam, or a combination? A Retrospective comparative study. BACKGROUND: In this retrospective comparative study, we aimed to compare the effectiveness of fentanyl, midazolam, and a combination of fentanyl and midazolam to prevent etomidate-induced myoclonus. MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study was performed based on anesthesia records. Depending on the drugs that would be given before the induction of anesthesia with etomidate, the patients were separated into 4 groups: no pretreatment (Group NP), fentanyl 1 ug.kg-1 (Group F), midazolam 0.03 mg.kg-1 (Group M), and midazolam 0.015 mg.kg-1 + fentanyl 0.5 ug.kg-1 (Group FM). Patients who received the same anesthetic procedure were selected: 2 minutes after intravenous injections of the pretreatment drugs, anesthesia is induced with 0.3 mg.kg-1 etomidate injected intravenously over a period of 20-30 seconds. Myoclonic movements are evaluated, which were observed and graded according to clinical severity during the 2 minutes after etomidate injection. The severity of pain due to etomidate injection, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and adverse effects were also evaluated. RESULTS: Study results showed that myoclonus incidence was 85%, 40%, 70%, and 25% in Group NP, Group F, Group M, and Group FM, respectively, and were significantly lower in Group F and Group FM. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that pretreatment with fentanyl or combination of fentanyl and midazolam was effective in preventing etomidate-induced myoclonus.

24902786	Testosterone ameliorates streptozotocin-induced memory impairment in male rats. AIM: To study the effects of testosterone on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced memory impairment in male rats. METHODS: Adult male Wistar rats were intracerebroventricularly (icv) infused with STZ (750 ug) on d 1 and d 3, and a passive avoidance task was assessed 2 weeks after the first injection of STZ. Castration surgery was performed in another group of rats, and the passive avoidance task was assessed 4 weeks after the operation. Testosterone (1 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), sc), the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide (10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), ip), the estrogen receptor antagonist tamoxifen (1 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), ip) or the aromatase inhibitor letrozole (4 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), ip) were administered for 6 d after the first injection of STZ. RESULTS: STZ administration and castration markedly decreased both STL1 (the short memory) and STL2 (the long memory) in passive avoidance tests. Testosterone replacement almost restored the STL1 and STL2 in castrated rats, and significantly prolonged the STL1 and STL2 in STZ-treated rats. Administration of flutamide, letrozole or tamoxifen significantly impaired the memory in intact rats, and significantly attenuated the testosterone replacement in improving STZ- and castration-induced memory impairment. CONCLUSION: Testosterone administration ameliorates STZ- and castration-induced memory impairment in male Wistar rats.

24927617	Rhabdomyolysis in a hepatitis C virus infected patient treated with telaprevir and simvastatin. A 46-year old man with a chronic hepatitis C virus infection received triple therapy with ribavirin, pegylated interferon and telaprevir. The patient also received simvastatin. One month after starting the antiviral therapy, the patient was admitted to the hospital because he developed rhabdomyolysis. At admission simvastatin and all antiviral drugs were discontinued because toxicity due to a drug-drug interaction was suspected. The creatine kinase peaked at 62,246 IU/L and the patient was treated with intravenous normal saline. The patient's renal function remained unaffected. Fourteen days after hospitalization, creatine kinase level had returned to 230 IU/L and the patient was discharged. Telaprevir was considered the probable causative agent of an interaction with simvastatin according to the Drug Interaction Probability Scale. The interaction is due to inhibition of CYP3A4-mediated simvastatin clearance. Simvastatin plasma concentration increased 30 times in this patient and statin induced muscle toxicity is related to the concentration of the statin in blood. In conclusion, with this case we illustrate that telaprevir as well as statins are susceptible to clinical relevant drug-drug interactions.

15485686	A novel SCN5A mutation manifests as a malignant form of long QT syndrome with perinatal onset of tachycardia/bradycardia. OBJECTIVE: Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) with in utero onset of the rhythm disturbances is associated with a poor prognosis. In this study we investigated a newborn patient with fetal bradycardia, 2:1 atrioventricular block and ventricular tachycardia soon after birth. METHODS: Mutational analysis and DNA sequencing were conducted in a newborn. The 2:1 atrioventricular block improved to 1:1 conduction only after intravenous lidocaine infusion or a high dose of mexiletine, which also controlled the ventricular tachycardia. RESULTS: A novel, spontaneous LQTS-3 mutation was identified in the transmembrane segment 6 of domain IV of the Na(v)1.5 cardiac sodium channel, with a G-->A substitution at codon 1763, which changed a valine (GTG) to a methionine (ATG). The proband was heterozygous but the mutation was absent in the parents and the sister. Expression of this mutant channel in tsA201 mammalian cells by site-directed mutagenesis revealed a persistent tetrodotoxin-sensitive but lidocaine-resistant current that was associated with a positive shift of the steady-state inactivation curve, steeper activation curve and faster recovery from inactivation. We also found a similar electrophysiological profile for the neighboring V1764M mutant. But, the other neighboring I1762A mutant had no persistent current and was still associated with a positive shift of inactivation. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the Na(v)1.5/V1763M channel dysfunction and possible neighboring mutants contribute to a persistent inward current due to altered inactivation kinetics and clinically congenital LQTS with perinatal onset of arrhythmias that responded to lidocaine and mexiletine.

16046395	Allelic expression imbalance of human mu opioid receptor (OPRM1) caused by variant A118G. As a primary target for opioid drugs and peptides, the mu opioid receptor (OPRM1) plays a key role in pain perception and addiction. Genetic variants of OPRM1 have been implicated in predisposition to drug addiction, in particular the single nucleotide polymorphism A118G, leading to an N40D substitution, with an allele frequency of 10-32%, and uncertain functions. We have measured allele-specific mRNA expression of OPRM1 in human autopsy brain tissues, using A118G as a marker. In 8 heterozygous samples measured, the A118 mRNA allele was 1.5-2.5-fold more abundant than the G118 allele. Transfection into Chinese hamster ovary cells of a cDNA representing only the coding region of OPRM1, carrying adenosine, guanosine, cytidine, and thymidine in position 118, resulted in 1.5-fold lower mRNA levels only for OPRM1-G118, and more than 10-fold lower OPRM1 protein levels, measured by Western blotting and receptor binding assay. After transfection and inhibition of transcription with actinomycin D, analysis of mRNA turnover failed to reveal differences in mRNA stability between A118 and G118 alleles, indicating a defect in transcription or mRNA maturation. These results indicate that OPRM1-G118 is a functional variant with deleterious effects on both mRNA and protein yield. Clarifying the functional relevance of polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to a complex disorder such as drug addiction provides a foundation for clinical association studies.

18457324	Genetic polymorphisms in the carbonyl reductase 3 gene CBR3 and the NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 gene NQO1 in patients who developed anthracycline-related congestive heart failure after childhood cancer. BACKGROUND: Exposure to anthracyclines as part of cancer therapy has been associated with the development of congestive heart failure (CHF). The potential role of genetic risk factors in anthracycline-related CHF remains to be defined. Thus, in this study, the authors examined whether common polymorphisms in candidate genes involved in the pharmacodynamics of anthracyclines (in particular, the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate:quinone oxidoreductase 1 gene NQO1 and the carbonyl reductase 3 gene CBR3) had an impact on the risk of anthracycline-related CHF. METHODS: A nested case-control study was conducted within a cohort of 1979 patients enrolled in the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study who received treatment with anthracyclines and had available DNA. Thirty patients with CHF (cases) and 115 matched controls were genotyped for polymorphisms in NQO1 (NQO1*2) and CBR3 (the CBR3 valine [V] to methionine [M] substitution at position 244 [V244M]). Enzyme activity assays with recombinant CBR3 isoforms (CBR3 V244 and CBR3 M244) and the anthracycline substrate doxorubicin were used to investigate the functional impact of the CBR3 V244M polymorphism. RESULTS: Multivariate analyses adjusted for sex and primary disease recurrence were used to test for associations between the candidate genetic polymorphisms (NQO1*2 and CBR3 V244M) and the risk of CHF. Analyses indicated no association between the NQO1*2 polymorphism and the risk of anthracycline-related CHF (odds ratio [OR], 1.04; P=.97). There was a trend toward an association between the CBR3 V244M polymorphism and the risk of CHF (OR, 8.16; P=.056 for G/G vs A/A; OR, 5.44; P=.092 for G/A vs A/A). In line, recombinant CBR3 V244 (G allele) synthesized 2.6-fold more cardiotoxic doxorubicinol per unit of time than CBR3 M244 (A allele; CBR3 V244 [8.26+/-3.57 nmol/hour.mg] vs CBR3 M244 [3.22+/-0.67 nmol/hour.mg]; P=.01). CONCLUSIONS: The functional CBR3 V244M polymorphism may have an impact on the risk of anthracycline-related CHF among childhood cancer survivors by modulating the intracardiac formation of cardiotoxic anthracycline alcohol metabolites. Larger confirmatory case-control studies are warranted.

1848636	Debrisoquine phenotype and the pharmacokinetics and beta-2 receptor pharmacodynamics of metoprolol and its enantiomers. The metabolism of the cardioselective beta-blocker metoprolol is under genetic control of the debrisoquine/sparteine type. The two metabolic phenotypes, extensive (EM) and poor metabolizers (PM), show different stereoselective metabolism, resulting in apparently higher beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonistic potency of racemic metoprolol in EMs. We investigated if the latter also applies to the beta-2 adrenoceptor antagonism by metoprolol. The drug effect studied was the antagonism by metoprolol of terbutaline-induced hypokalemia. By using pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic modeling the pharmacodynamics of racemic metoprolol and the active S-isomer, were quantitated in EMs and PMs in terms of IC50 values, representing metoprolol plasma concentrations resulting in half-maximum receptor occupancy. Six EMs received 0.5 mg of terbutaline s.c. on two different occasions: 1) 1 hr after administration of a placebo and 2) 1 hr after 150 mg of metoprolol p.o. Five PMs were studied according to the same protocol, except for a higher terbutaline dose (0.75 mg) on day 2. Blood samples for the analysis of plasma potassium, terbutaline, metoprolol (racemic, R- and S-isomer), and alpha-hydroxymetoprolol concentrations were taken at regular time intervals, during 8 hr after metoprolol. In PMs, metoprolol increased the terbutaline area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (+67%). Higher metoprolol/alpha-hydroxymetoprolol ratios in PMs were predictive for higher R-/S-isomer ratios of unchanged drug. There was a difference in metoprolol potency with higher racemic metoprolol IC50 values in PMs (72 +/- 7 ng.ml-1) than EMs (42 +/- 8 ng.ml-1, P less than .001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

19394258	The first founder DGUOK mutation associated with hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. Deoxyguanosine kinase (dGK) deficiency is a frequent cause of mitochondrial DNA depletion associated with a hepatocerebral phenotype. In this study, we describe a new splice site mutation in the DGUOK gene and the clinical, radiologic, and genetic features of these DGUOK patients. This new DGUOK homozygous mutation (c.444-62C>A) was identified in three patients from two North-African consanguineous families with combined respiratory chain deficiencies and mitochondrial DNA depletion in the liver. Brain MRIs are normal in DGUOK patients in the literature. Interestingly, we found subtentorial abnormal myelination and moderate hyperintensity in the bilateral pallidi in our patients. This new mutation creates a cryptic splice site in intron 3 (in position -62) and is predicted to result in a larger protein with an in-frame insertion of 20 amino acids. In silico analysis of the putative impact of the insertion shows serious clashes in protein conformation: this insertion disrupts the alpha5 helix of the dGK kinase domain, rendering the protein unable to bind purine deoxyribonucleosides. In addition, a common haplotype that segregated with the disease in both families was detected by haplotype reconstruction with 10 markers (microsatellites and SNPs), which span 4.6 Mb of DNA covering the DGUOK locus. In conclusion, we report a new DGUOK splice site mutation that provide insight into a critical protein domain (dGK kinase domain) and the first founder mutation in a North-African population.

19565319	Adenosine A(2A) receptor gene (ADORA2A) variants may increase autistic symptoms and anxiety in autism spectrum disorder. Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are heterogeneous disorders presenting with increased rates of anxiety. The adenosine A(2A) receptor gene (ADORA2A) is associated with panic disorder and is located on chromosome 22q11.23. Its gene product, the adenosine A(2A) receptor, is strongly expressed in the caudate nucleus, which also is involved in ASD. As autistic symptoms are increased in individuals with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, and large 22q11.2 deletions and duplications have been observed in ASD individuals, in this study, 98 individuals with ASD and 234 control individuals were genotyped for eight single-nucleotide polymorphisms in ADORA2A. Nominal association with the disorder was observed for rs2236624-CC, and phenotypic variability in ASD symptoms was influenced by rs3761422, rs5751876 and rs35320474. In addition, association of ADORA2A variants with anxiety was replicated for individuals with ASD. Findings point toward a possible mediating role of ADORA2A variants on phenotypic expression in ASD that need to be replicated in a larger sample.

20648600	High frequency of lamivudine resistance mutations in Brazilian patients co-infected with HIV and hepatitis B. This study analyzed the genotype distribution and frequency of lamivudine (LAM) and tenofovir (TDF) resistance mutations in a group of patients co-infected with HIV and hepatitis B virus (HBV). A cross-sectional study of 847 patients with HIV was conducted. Patients provided blood samples for HBsAg detection. The load of HBV was determined using an "in-house" real-time polymerase chain reaction. HBV genotypes/subgenotypes, antiviral resistance, basal core promoter (BCP), and precore mutations were detected by DNA sequencing. Twenty-eight patients with co-infection were identified. The distribution of HBV genotypes among these patients was A (n = 9; 50%), D (n = 4; 22.2%), G (n = 3; 16.7%), and F (n = 2; 11.1%). Eighteen patients were treated with LAM and six patients were treated with LAM plus TDF. The length of exposure to LAM and TDF varied from 4 to 216 months. LAM resistance substitutions (rtL180M + rtM204V) were detected in 10 (50%) of the 20 patients with viremia. This pattern and an accompanying rtV173L mutation was found in four patients. Three patients with the triple polymerase substitution pattern (rtV173L + rtL180M + rtM204V) had associated changes in the envelope gene (sE164D + sI195M). Mutations in the BCP region (A1762T, G1764A) and in the precore region (G1896A, G1899A) were also found. No putative TDF resistance substitution was detected. The data suggest that prolonged LAM use is associated with the emergence of particular changes in the HBV genome, including substitutions that may elicit a vaccine escape phenotype. No putative TDF resistance change was detected after prolonged use of TDF.

21976953	Identification of a novel FBN1 gene mutation in a Chinese family with Marfan syndrome. PURPOSE: To identify the mutation in the fibrillin-1 gene (FBN1) in a Chinese family with Marfan syndrome (MFS). METHODS: Patients and family members were given complete physical, ophthalmic, and cardiovascular examinations. Genomic DNA was extracted from leukocytes of venous blood of six individuals in the family and 170 healthy Chinese individuals. All of the 65 coding exons and their flanking intronic boundaries of FBN1 were amplified in the proband by polymerase chain reaction and followed by direct sequencing. The mutation identified in the proband was screened in the other family members and the 170 healthy Chinese individuals by direct sequencing. Protein conservation analysis was performed in six species using an online ClustalW tool. Protein structure was modeled based on the Protein data bank and mutated in DeepView v4.0.1 to predict the functional consequences of the mutation. RESULTS: A novel heterozygous c.3703T>C change in exon 29 of FBN1 was detected in the proband, which resulted in the substitution of serine by proline at codon 1235 (p.S1235P). This mutation was also present in two family members but absent in the other, unaffected family members and the 170 healthy Chinese individuals. The mutant residue located in the calcium binding epidermal growth factor-like#15 domain is highly conserved among mammalian species and could probably induce conformation change of the domain. CONCLUSIONS: We indentified a novel p.S1235P mutation in FBN1, which is the causative mutation for MFS in this family. Our result expands the mutation spectrum of FBN1 and contributes to the study of the molecular pathogenesis of Marfan syndrome.

2491010	Molecular and phenotypic analysis of patients with deletions within the deletion-rich region of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene. Eighty unrelated individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD)or Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) were found to have deletions in the major deletion-rich region of the DMD locus. This region includes the last five exons detected by cDNA5b-7, all exons detected by cDNA8, and the first two exons detected by cDNA9. These 80 individuals account for approximately 75% of 109 deletions of the gene, detected among 181 patients analyzed with the entire dystrophin cDNA. Endpoints for many of these deletions were further characterized using two genomic probes, p20 (DXS269; Wapenaar et al.) and GMGX11 (DXS239; present paper). Clinical findings are presented for all 80 patients allowing a correlation of phenotypic severity with the genotype. Thirty-eight independent patients were old enough to be classified as DMD, BMD, or intermediate phenotype and had deletions of exons with sequenced intron/exon boundaries. Of these, eight BMD patients and one intermediate patient had gene deletions predicted to leave the reading frame intact, while 21 DMD patients, 7 intermediate patients, and 1 BMD patient had gene deletions predicted to disrupt the reading frame. Thus, with two exceptions, frameshift deletions of the gene resulted in more severe phenotype than did in-frame deletions. This is in agreement with recent findings by Baumbach et al. and Koenig et al. but is in contrast to findings, by Malhotra et al. at the 5 ' end of the gene.

25006961	Absence of PKC-alpha attenuates lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Lithium, an effective antipsychotic, induces nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) in  40% of patients. The decreased capacity to concentrate urine is likely due to lithium acutely disrupting the cAMP pathway and chronically reducing urea transporter (UT-A1) and water channel (AQP2) expression in the inner medulla. Targeting an alternative signaling pathway, such as PKC-mediated signaling, may be an effective method of treating lithium-induced polyuria. PKC-alpha null mice (PKCa KO) and strain-matched wild type (WT) controls were treated with lithium for 0, 3 or 5 days. WT mice had increased urine output and lowered urine osmolality after 3 and 5 days of treatment whereas PKCa KO mice had no change in urine output or concentration. Western blot analysis revealed that AQP2 expression in medullary tissues was lowered after 3 and 5 days in WT mice; however, AQP2 was unchanged in PKCa KO. Similar results were observed with UT-A1 expression. Animals were also treated with lithium for 6 weeks. Lithium-treated WT mice had 19-fold increased urine output whereas treated PKCa KO animals had a 4-fold increase in output. AQP2 and UT-A1 expression was lowered in 6 week lithium-treated WT animals whereas in treated PKCa KO mice, AQP2 was only reduced by 2-fold and UT-A1 expression was unaffected. Urinary sodium, potassium and calcium were elevated in lithium-fed WT but not in lithium-fed PKCa KO mice. Our data show that ablation of PKCa preserves AQP2 and UT-A1 protein expression and localization in lithium-induced NDI, and prevents the development of the severe polyuria associated with lithium therapy.

27464336	Decreased Whole-Body Fat Mass Produced by Chronic Alcohol Consumption is Associated with Activation of S6K1-Mediated Protein Synthesis and Increased Autophagy in Epididymal White Adipose Tissue. BACKGROUND: Chronic alcohol consumption leads to a loss of white adipose tissue (WAT) but the underlying mechanisms for this lipodystrophy are not fully elucidated. This study tested the hypothesis that the reduction in WAT mass in chronic alcohol-fed mice is associated with a decreased protein synthesis specifically related to impaired function of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). METHODS: Adult male mice were provided an alcohol-containing liquid diet for 24 weeks or an isonitrogenous isocaloric control diet. In vivo protein synthesis was determined at this time and thereafter epididymal WAT (eWAT) was excised for analysis of signal transduction pathways central to controling protein synthesis and degradation. RESULTS: While chronic alcohol feeding decreased whole-body and eWAT mass, this was associated with a discordant increase in protein synthesis in eWAT. This increase was not associated with a change in mTOR, 4E-BP1, Akt, or PRAS40 phosphorylation. Instead, a selective increase in phosphorylation of S6K1 and its downstream substrates, S6 and eIF4B was detected in alcohol-fed mice. Alcohol also increased eEF2K phosphorylation and decreased eEF2 phosphorylation consistent with increased translation elongation. Alcohol increased Atg12-5, LC3B-I and -II, and ULK1 S555 phosphorylation, suggesting increased autophagy, while markers of apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3 and -9, and PARP) were unchanged. Lipolytic enzymes (ATGL and HSL phosphorylation) were increased and lipogenic regulators (PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha) were decreased in eWAT by alcohol. Although alcohol increased TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1beta mRNA, no change in key components of the NLRP3 inflammasome (NLRP3, ACS, and cleaved caspase-1) was detected suggesting alcohol did not increase pyroptosis. Plasma insulin did not differ between groups. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that the alcohol-induced decrease in whole-body fat mass resulted in part from activation of autophagy in eWAT as protein synthesis was increased and mediated by the specific increase in the activity of S6K1.

8829135	Nefiracetam (DM-9384) reverses apomorphine-induced amnesia of a passive avoidance response: delayed emergence of the memory retention effects. Nefiracetam is a novel pyrrolidone derivative which attenuates scopolamine-induced learning and post-training consolidation deficits. Given that apomorphine inhibits passive avoidance retention when given during training or in a defined 10-12h post-training period, we evaluated the ability of nefiracetam to attenuate amnesia induced by dopaminergic agonism. A step-down passive avoidance paradigm was employed and nefiracetam (3 mg/kg) and apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) were given alone or in combination during training and at the 10-12h post-training period of consolidation. Co-administration of nefiracetam and apomorphine during training or 10h thereafter produced no significant anti-amnesic effect. However, administration of nefiracetam during training completely reversed the amnesia induced by apomorphine at the 10h post-training time and the converse was also true. These effects were not mediated by a dopaminergic mechanism as nefiracetam, at millimolar concentrations, failed to displace either [3H]SCH 23390 or [3H]spiperone binding from D1 or D2 dopamine receptor subtypes, respectively. It is suggested that nefiracetam augments molecular processes in the early stages of events which ultimately lead to consolidation of memory.

9672936	Pethidine-associated seizure in a healthy adolescent receiving pethidine for postoperative pain control. A healthy 17-year-old male received standard intermittent doses of pethidine via a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump for management of postoperative pain control. Twenty-three h postoperatively he developed a brief self-limited seizure. Both plasma pethidine and norpethidine were elevated in the range associated with clinical manifestations of central nervous system excitation. No other risk factors for CNS toxicity were identified. This method allowed frequent self-dosing of pethidine at short time intervals and rapid accumulation of pethidine and norpethidine. The routine use of pethidine via PCA even for a brief postoperative analgesia should be reconsidered.

18503483	Recovery of tacrolimus-associated brachial neuritis after conversion to everolimus in a pediatric renal transplant recipient--case report and review of the literature. TAC has been shown to be a potent immunosuppressive agent for solid organ transplantation in pediatrics. Neurotoxicity is a potentially serious toxic effect. It is characterized by encephalopathy, headaches, seizures, or neurological deficits. Here, we describe an eight-and-a-half-yr-old male renal transplant recipient with right BN. MRI demonstrated hyperintense T2 signals in the cervical cord and right brachial plexus roots indicative of both myelitis and right brachial plexitis. Symptoms persisted for three months despite TAC dose reduction, administration of IVIG and four doses of methylprednisolone pulse therapy. Improvement and eventually full recovery only occurred after TAC was completely discontinued and successfully replaced by everolimus.

26991973	MOL1 is required for cambium homeostasis in Arabidopsis. Plants maintain pools of pluripotent stem cells which allow them to constantly produce new tissues and organs. Stem cell homeostasis in shoot and root tips depends on negative regulation by ligand-receptor pairs of the CLE peptide and leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRR-RLK) families. However, regulation of the cambium, the stem cell niche required for lateral growth of shoots and roots, is poorly characterized. Here we show that the LRR-RLK MOL1 is necessary for cambium homeostasis in Arabidopsis thaliana. By employing promoter reporter lines, we reveal that MOL1 is active in a domain that is distinct from the domain of the positively acting CLE41/PXY signaling module. In particular, we show that MOL1 acts in an opposing manner to the CLE41/PXY module and that changing the domain or level of MOL1 expression both result in disturbed cambium organization. Underlining discrete roles of MOL1 and PXY, both LRR-RLKs are not able to replace each other when their expression domains are interchanged. Furthermore, MOL1 but not PXY is able to rescue CLV1 deficiency in the shoot apical meristem. By identifying genes mis-expressed in mol1 mutants, we demonstrate that MOL1 represses genes associated with stress-related ethylene and jasmonic acid hormone signaling pathways which have known roles in coordinating lateral growth of the Arabidopsis stem. Our findings provide evidence that common regulatory mechanisms in different plant stem cell niches are adapted to specific niche anatomies and emphasize the importance of a complex spatial organization of intercellular signaling cascades for a strictly bidirectional tissue production.

16112787	In vivo evidences suggesting the role of oxidative stress in pathogenesis of vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity: protection by erdosteine. The aims of this study were to examine vancomycin (VCM)-induced oxidative stress that promotes production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and to investigate the role of erdosteine, an expectorant agent, which has also antioxidant properties, on kidney tissue against the possible VCM-induced renal impairment in rats. Rats were divided into three groups: sham, VCM and VCM plus erdosteine. VCM was administrated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 200mgkg(-1) twice daily for 7 days. Erdosteine was administered orally. VCM administration to control rats significantly increased renal malondialdehyde (MDA) and urinary N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (NAG, a marker of renal tubular injury) excretion but decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities. Erdosteine administration with VCM injections caused significantly decreased renal MDA and urinary NAG excretion, and increased SOD activity, but not CAT activity in renal tissue when compared with VCM alone. Erdosteine showed histopathological protection against VCM-induced nephrotoxicity. There were a significant dilatation of tubular lumens, extensive epithelial cell vacuolization, atrophy, desquamation, and necrosis in VCM-treated rats more than those of the control and the erdosteine groups. Erdosteine caused a marked reduction in the extent of tubular damage. It is concluded that oxidative tubular damage plays an important role in the VCM-induced nephrotoxicity and the modulation of oxidative stress with erdosteine reduces the VCM-induced kidney damage both at the biochemical and histological levels.

21405999	Mutation screening of the GUCA1B gene in patients with autosomal dominant cone and cone rod dystrophy. Background: Heterozygous mutations in GUCA1A (MIM # 600364) have been identified to cause autosomal dominantly inherited cone dystrophy, cone rod dystrophy and macular dystrophy. However, the role of GUCA1B gene mutations in inherited retinal disease has been controversial. We therefore performed a mutation analysis of the GUCA1B gene in a clinically well characterized group of patients of European and North-American geographical origin with autosomal dominantly inherited cone dystrophy and cone rod dystrophy. Material and Methods: Twenty-four unrelated patients diagnosed with cone dystrophy or cone rod dystrophy according to standard diagnostic criteria and a family history consistent with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance were included in the study. Mutation analysis of all coding exons of the GUCA1B gene was performed by polymerase chain reaction amplification of genomic DNA and subsequent DNA sequencing. Results: Three different sequence variants, c.-17T>C, c.171T>C, c.465G>T were identified. The sequence variant c.465G>T encodes a conservative amino acid substitution, p.Glu155Asp, located in EF-hand 4, the calcium binding site of GCAP2 protein. All sequence variants were previously reported in healthy subjects. Conclusion: The absence of clearly pathogenic mutations in the selected patient group suggests that the GUCA1B gene is a minor cause for retinal degenerations in Europeans or North-Americans.

15233872	Cardioprotective effect of tincture of Crataegus on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Tincture of Crataegus (TCR), an alcoholic extract of the berries of hawthorn (Crataegus oxycantha), is used in herbal and homeopathic medicine. The present study was done to investigate the protective effect of TCR on experimentally induced myocardial infarction in rats. Pretreatment of TCR, at a dose of 0.5 mL/100 g bodyweight per day, orally for 30 days, prevented the increase in lipid peroxidation and activity of marker enzymes observed in isoproterenol-induced rats (85 mg kg(-1) s. c. for 2 days at an interval of 24 h). TCR prevented the isoproterenol-induced decrease in antioxidant enzymes in the heart and increased the rate of ADP-stimulated oxygen uptake and respiratory coupling ratio. TCR protected against pathological changes induced by isoproterenol in rat heart. The results show that pretreatment with TCR may be useful in preventing the damage induced by isoproterenol in rat heart.

17059986	A novel splicing mutation in SLC12A3 associated with Gitelman syndrome and idiopathic intracranial hypertension. We report a case of Gitelman syndrome (GS) in a dizygotic twin who presented at 12 years of age with growth delay, metabolic alkalosis, hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia with inappropriate kaliuresis, and idiopathic intracranial hypertension with bilateral papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri). The patient, her twin sister, and her mother also presented with cerebral cavernous malformations. Based on the early onset and normocalciuria, Bartter syndrome was diagnosed first. However, mutation analysis showed that the proband is a compound heterozygote for 2 mutations in SLC12A3: a substitution of serine by leucine at amino acid position 555 (p.Ser555Leu) and a novel guanine to cytosine transition at the 5' splice site of intron 22 (c.2633+1G>C), providing the molecular diagnosis of GS. These mutations were not detected in 200 normal chromosomes and cosegregated within the family. Analysis of complementary DNA showed that the heterozygous nucleotide change c.2633+1G>C caused the appearance of 2 RNA molecules, 1 normal transcript and 1 skipping the entire exon 22 (r.2521_2634del). Supplementation with potassium and magnesium improved clinical symptoms and resulted in catch-up growth, but vision remained impaired. Three similar associations of Bartter syndrome/GS with pseudotumor cerebri were found in the literature, suggesting that electrolyte abnormalities and secondary aldosteronism may have a role in idiopathic intracranial hypertension. This study provides further evidence for the phenotypical heterogeneity of GS and its association with severe manifestations in children. It also shows the independent segregation of familial cavernomatosis and GS.

18991055	Association between polymorphisms in SLC30A8, HHEX, CDKN2A/B, IGF2BP2, FTO, WFS1, CDKAL1, KCNQ1 and type 2 diabetes in the Korean population. According to recent genome-wide association studies, a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are reported to be associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The aim of the present study was to investigate the association among the polymorphisms of SLC30A8, HHEX, CDKN2A/B, IGF2BP2, FTO, WFS1, CDKAL1 and KCNQ1 and the risk of T2DM in the Korean population. This study was based on a multicenter case-control study, including 908 patients with T2DM and 502 non-diabetic controls. We genotyped rs13266634, rs1111875, rs10811661, rs4402960, rs8050136, rs734312, rs7754840 and rs2237892 and measured the body weight, body mass index and fasting plasma glucose in all patients and controls. The strongest association was found in a variant of CDKAL1 [rs7754840, odds ratio (OR) = 1.77, 95% CI = 1.50-2.10, p = 5.0 x 10(-11)]. The G allele of rs1111875 (OR = 1.43, 95% CI = 1.18-1.72, p = 1.8 x 10(-4)) in HHEX), the T allele of rs10811661 (OR = 1.47, 95% CI = 1.23-1.75, p = 2.1 x 10(-5)) in CDKN2A/B) and the C allele of rs2237892 (OR = 1.31, 95% CI = 1.10-1.56, p = 0.003) in KCNQ1 showed significant associations with T2DM. Rs13266634 (OR = 1.19, 95% CI = 1.00-1.42, p = 0.045) in SLC30A8 showed a nominal association with the risk of T2DM, whereas SNPs in IGF2BP2, FTO and WFS1 were not associated. In conclusion, we have shown that SNPs in HHEX, CDKN2A/B, CDKAL1, KCNQ1 and SLC30A8 confer a risk of T2DM in the Korean population.

20705401	Serotonin 6 receptor gene is associated with methamphetamine-induced psychosis in a Japanese population. BACKGROUND: Altered serotonergic neural transmission is hypothesized to be a susceptibility factor for psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. The serotonin 6 (5-HT6) receptor is therapeutically targeted by several second generation antipsychotics, such as clozapine and olanzapine, and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in rats is corrected with the use of a selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist. In addition, the disrupted prepulse inhibition induced by d-amphetamine or phencyclidine was restored by 5-HT6 receptor antagonist in an animal study using rats. These animal models were considered to reflect the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, and the above evidence suggests that altered 5-HT6 receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of psychotic disorders. The symptoms of methamphetamine (METH)-induced psychosis are similar to those of paranoid type schizophrenia. Therefore, we conducted an analysis of the association of the 5-HT6 gene (HTR6) with METH-induced psychosis. METHOD: Using five tagging SNPs (rs6693503, rs1805054, rs4912138, rs3790757 and rs9659997), we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (197 METH-induced psychosis patients and 337 controls) in the Japanese population. The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine dependence patients. RESULTS: rs6693503 was associated with METH-induced psychosis patients in the allele/genotype-wise analysis. Moreover, this association remained significant after Bonferroni correction. In the haplotype-wise analysis, we detected an association between two markers (rs6693503 and rs1805054) and three markers (rs6693503, rs1805054 and rs4912138) in HTR6 and METH-induced psychosis patients, respectively. CONCLUSION: HTR6 may play an important role in the pathophysiology of METH-induced psychosis in the Japanese population.

22369755	Reciprocal effects of NNK and SLURP-1 on oncogene expression in target epithelial cells. AIMS: To elucidate how the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors expressed on bronchial and oral epithelial cells targeted by the tobacco nitrosamine (4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone) (NNK) facilitate carcinogenic transformation. MAIN METHODS: Since NNK-dependent transformation can be abolished by the nicotinergic secreted mammalian Ly-6/urokinase plasminogen activator receptor related protein-1 (SLURP-1), we compared effects of NNK and recombinant (r)SLURP-1 on the expression of genes related to tumorigenesis in human immortalized bronchial and oral epithelial cell lines BEP2D and Het-1A, respectively. KEY FINDINGS: NNK stimulated expression of oncogenic genes, including MYB and PIK3CA in BEP2D, ETS1, NRAS and SRC in Het-1A, and AKT1, KIT and RB1 in both cell types, which could be abolished in the presence of rSLURP-1. Other cancer-related genes whose upregulation by NNK was abolishable by rSLURP-1 were the growth factors EGF in BEP2D cells and HGF in Het-1A cells, and the transcription factors CDKN2A and STAT3 (Het-1A only). NNK also upregulated the anti-apoptotic BCL2 (Het-1A) and downregulated the pro-apoptotic TNF (Het-1A), BAX and CASP8 (BEP2D), all of which could be abolished, in part, by rSLURP-1. NNK decreased expression of the CTNNB1 gene encoding the intercellular adhesion molecule beta-catenin (BEP2D), as well as tumor suppressors CDKN3 and FOXD3 in BEP2D cells and SERPINB5 in Het-1A cells. These pro-oncogenic effects of NNK were abolished by rSLURP-1 that also upregulated RUNX3. SIGNIFICANCE: The obtained results identified target genes for both NNK and SLURP-1 and shed light on the molecular mechanism of their reciprocal effects on tumorigenic transformation of bronchial and oral epithelial cells.

27959387	Long-term exposure of MCF-7 breast cancer cells to ethanol stimulates oncogenic features. Alcohol consumption is a risk factor for breast cancer. Little is known regarding the mechanism, although it is assumed that acetaldehyde or estrogen mediated pathways play a role. We previously showed that long-term exposure to 2.5 mM ethanol (blood alcohol ~0.012%) of MCF-12A, a human normal epithelial breast cell line, induced epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) and oncogenic transformation. In this study, we investigated in the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, whether a similar exposure to ethanol at concentrations ranging up to peak blood levels in heavy drinkers would increase malignant progression. Short-term (1-week) incubation to ethanol at as low as 1-5 mM (corresponding to blood alcohol concentration of ~0.0048-0.024%) upregulated the stem cell related proteins Oct4 and Nanog, but they were reduced after exposure at 25 mM. Long-term (4-week) exposure to 25 mM ethanol upregulated the Oct4 and Nanog proteins, as well as the malignancy marker Ceacam6. DNA microarray analysis in cells exposed for 1 week showed upregulated expression of metallothionein genes, particularly MT1X. Long-term exposure upregulated expression of some malignancy related genes (STEAP4, SERPINA3, SAMD9, GDF15, KRT15, ITGB6, TP63, and PGR, as well as the CEACAM, interferon related, and HLA gene families). Some of these findings were validated by RT-PCR. A similar treatment also modulated numerous microRNAs (miRs) including one regulator of Oct4 as well as miRs involved in oncogenesis and/or malignancy, with only a few estrogen-induced miRs. Long-term 25 mM ethanol also induced a 5.6-fold upregulation of anchorage-independent growth, an indicator of malignant-like features. Exposure to acetaldehyde resulted in little or no effect comparable to that of ethanol. The previously shown alcohol induction of oncogenic transformation of normal breast cells is now complemented by the current results suggesting alcohol's potential involvement in malignant progression of breast cancer.

21684788	Large contiguous gene deletions in Sjogren-Larsson syndrome. Sjogren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis, mental retardation, spasticity and mutations in the ALDH3A2 gene for fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase, an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of fatty aldehyde to fatty acid. More than 70 mutations have been identified in SLS patients, including small deletions or insertions, missense mutations, splicing defects and complex nucleotide changes. We now describe 2 SLS patients whose disease is caused by large contiguous gene deletions of the ALDH3A2 locus on 17p11.2. The deletions were defined using long distance inverse PCR and microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization. A 24-year-old SLS female was homozygous for a 352-kb deletion involving ALDH3A2 and 4 contiguous genes including ALDH3A1, which codes for the major soluble protein in cornea. Although lacking corneal disease, she showed severe symptoms of SLS with uncommon deterioration in oral motor function and loss of ambulation. The other 19-month-old female patient was a compound heterozygote for a 1.44-Mb contiguous gene deletion and a missense mutation (c.407C>T, P136L) in ALDH3A2. These studies suggest that large gene deletions may account for up to 5% of the mutant alleles in SLS. Geneticists should consider the possibility of compound heterozygosity for large deletions in patients with SLS and other inborn errors of metabolism, which has implications for carrier testing and prenatal diagnosis.

26937641	Serum Amyloid A Induces Inflammation, Proliferation and Cell Death in Activated Hepatic Stellate Cells. Serum amyloid A (SAA) is an evolutionary highly conserved acute phase protein that is predominantly secreted by hepatocytes. However, its role in liver injury and fibrogenesis has not been elucidated so far. In this study, we determined the effects of SAA on hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), the main fibrogenic cell type of the liver. Serum amyloid A potently activated IkappaB kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), Erk and Akt and enhanced NF-kappaB-dependent luciferase activity in primary human and rat HSCs. Serum amyloid A induced the transcription of MCP-1, RANTES and MMP9 in an NF-kappaB- and JNK-dependent manner. Blockade of NF-kappaB revealed cytotoxic effects of SAA in primary HSCs with signs of apoptosis such as caspase 3 and PARP cleavage and Annexin V staining. Serum amyloid A induced HSC proliferation, which depended on JNK, Erk and Akt activity. In primary hepatocytes, SAA also activated MAP kinases, but did not induce relevant cell death after NF-kappaB inhibition. In two models of hepatic fibrogenesis, CCl4 treatment and bile duct ligation, hepatic mRNA levels of SAA1 and SAA3 were strongly increased. In conclusion, SAA may modulate fibrogenic responses in the liver in a positive and negative fashion by inducing inflammation, proliferation and cell death in HSCs. 

15464247	Influence of interleukin 12B (IL12B) polymorphisms on spontaneous and treatment-induced recovery from hepatitis C virus infection. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Interleukin-12 (IL-12) governs the Th1-type immune response, affecting the spontaneous and treatment-induced recovery from HCV-infection. We investigated whether the IL12B polymorphisms within the promoter region (4 bp insertion/deletion) and the 3'-UTR (1188-A/C), which have been reported to influence IL-12 synthesis, are associated with the outcome of HCV infection. METHODS: We analyzed 186 individuals with spontaneous HCV clearance, 501 chronically HCV infected patients, and 217 healthy controls. IL12B 3'-UTR and promoter genotyping was performed by Taqman-based assays with allele-specific oligonucleotide probes and PCR-based allele-specific DNA-amplification, respectively. RESULTS: The proportion of IL12B promoter and 3'-UTR genotypes did not differ significantly between the different cohorts. However, HCV genotype 1-infected patients with high baseline viremia carrying the IL12B 3'-UTR 1188-C-allele showed significantly higher sustained virologic response (SVR) rates (25.3% vs. 46% vs. 54.5% for A/A, A/C and C/C) due to reduced relapse rates (24.2% vs. 12% vs. zero % for A/A, A/C and C/C). CONCLUSIONS: IL12B 3'-UTR 1188-C-allele carriers appear to be capable of responding more efficiently to antiviral combination therapy as a consequence of a reduced relapse rate. No association of IL12B polymorphisms and self-limited HCV infection could be demonstrated.

15824163	No Evidence for BRAF as a melanoma/nevus susceptibility gene. Somatic mutations of BRAF have been identified in both melanoma tumors and benign nevi. Germ line mutations in BRAF have not been identified as causal in families predisposed to melanoma. However, a recent study suggested that a BRAF haplotype was associated with risk of sporadic melanoma in men. Polymorphisms or other variants in the BRAF gene may therefore act as candidate low-penetrance genes for nevus/melanoma susceptibility. We hypothesized that promoter variants would be the most likely candidates for determinants of risk. Using denaturing high-pressure liquid chromatography and sequencing, we screened peripheral blood DNA from 184 familial melanoma cases for BRAF promoter variants. We identified a promoter insertion/deletion in linkage disequilibrium with the previously described BRAF polymorphism in intron 11 (rs1639679) reported to be associated with melanoma susceptibility in males. We therefore investigated the contribution of this BRAF polymorphism to melanoma susceptibility in 581 consecutively recruited incident cases, 258 incident cases in a study of late relapse, 673 female general practitioner controls, and the 184 familial cases. We found no statistically significant difference in either genotype or allele frequencies between cases and controls overall or between male and female cases for the BRAF polymorphism in the two incident case series. Our results therefore suggest that the BRAF polymorphism is not significantly associated with melanoma and the promoter insertion/deletion linked with the polymorphism is not a causal variant. In addition, we found that there was no association between the BRAF genotype and mean total number of banal or atypical nevi in either the cases or controls.

26900322	CFI-rs7356506 polymorphisms associated with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome. PURPOSE: Complement factor I (CFI) plays an important role in complement activation pathways and is known to affect the development of uveitis. The present study was performed to investigate the existence of an association between CFI genetic polymorphisms and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) syndrome. METHODS: A total of 100 patients diagnosed with VKH syndrome and 300 healthy controls were recruited for the study. Two milliliters of peripheral blood were collected in a sterile anticoagulative tube. CFI-rs7356506 polymorphisms were genotyped using Sequenom MassARRAY technology. Allele and genotype frequencies were compared between patients and controls using a X(2) test. The analyses were stratified for recurrent status, complicated cataract status, and steroid-sensitive status. RESULTS: No significant association was found between CFI-rs7356506 polymorphisms and VKH syndrome. However, patients with recurrent VKH syndrome had lower frequencies of the G allele and GG homozygosity in CFI-rs7356506 when compared to the controls (p=0.016, odds ratio [OR]=0.429, 95% confidence interval [CI]=0.212-0.871; p=0.014, OR=0.364, 95% CI=0.158-0.837, respectively). Furthermore, there were significant decreases in the frequencies of the G allele and GG homozygosity in CFI-rs7356506 in patients with VKH syndrome with complicated cataract compared to the controls (p<0.001, OR=0.357, 95% CI=0.197-0.648; p<0.001, OR=0.273, 95% CI=0.135-0.551, respectively). Nevertheless, no significant association with patients with VKH syndrome in steroid-sensitive statuses was detected for CFI-rs7356506 polymorphisms. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that CFI polymorphisms are not significantly associated with VKH syndrome; nevertheless, we identified a trend for the association of CFI-7356506 with VKH syndrome that depends on the recurrent status and the complicated cataract status but not on the steroid-sensitive status.

16840830	Two novel mutations in the MEN1 gene in subjects with multiple endocrine neoplasia-1. Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is characterized by parathyroid, enteropancreatic endocrine and pituitary adenomas as well as germline mutation of the MEN1 gene. We describe 2 families with MEN1 with novel mutations in the MEN1 gene. One family was of Turkish origin, and the index patient had primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) plus a prolactinoma; three relatives had PHPT only. The index patient in the second family was a 46-yr-old woman of Chinese origin living in Taiwan. This patient presented with a complaint of epigastric pain and watery diarrhea over the past 3 months, and had undergone subtotal parathyroidectomy and enucleation of pancreatic islet cell tumor about 10 yr before. There was also a prolactinoma. Sequence analysis of the MEN1 gene from leukocyte genomic DNA revealed heterozygous mutations in both probands. The Turkish patient and her affected relatives all had a heterozygous A to G transition at codon 557 (AAG-->GAG) of exon 10 of MEN1 that results in a replacement of lysine by glutamic acid. The Chinese index patient and one of her siblings had a heterozygous mutation at codon 418 of exon 9 (GAC-->TAT) that results in a substitution of aspartic acid by tyrosine. In conclusion, we have identified 2 novel missense mutations in the MEN1 gene.

15668505	Common BRCA2 variants and modification of breast and ovarian cancer risk in BRCA1 mutation carriers. The HH genotype of the nonconservative amino acid substitution polymorphism N372H in the BRCA2 gene was reported to be associated with a 1.3- to 1.5-fold increase in risk of both breast and ovarian cancer. As these studies concerned sporadic cancer cases, we investigated whether N372H and another common variant located in the 5'-untranslated region (203G > A) of the BRCA2 gene modify breast or ovarian cancer risk in BRCA1 mutation carriers. The study includes 778 women carrying a BRCA1 germ-line mutation belonging to 403 families. The two BRCA2 variants were analyzed by the TaqMan allelic discrimination technique. Genotypes were analyzed by disease-free survival analysis using a Cox proportional hazards model. We found no evidence of a significant modification of breast cancer penetrance in BRCA1 mutation carriers by either polymorphism. In respect of ovarian cancer risk, we also saw no effect with the N372H variant but we did observe a borderline association with the 5'-untranslated region 203A allele (hazard ratio, 1.43; CI, 1.01-2.00). In contrast to the result of Healey et al. on newborn females and adult female controls, we found no departure from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in the distribution of N372H alleles for our female BRCA1 carriers. We conclude that if these single-nucleotide polymorphisms do modify the risk of cancer in BRCA1 mutation carriers, their effects are not significantly larger than that of N372H previously observed in the general population.

26847345	Transgelin increases metastatic potential of colorectal cancer cells in vivo and alters expression of genes involved in cell motility. BACKGROUND: Transgelin is an actin-binding protein that promotes motility in normal cells. Although the role of transgelin in cancer is controversial, a number of studies have shown that elevated levels correlate with aggressive tumor behavior, advanced stage, and poor prognosis. Here we sought to determine the role of transgelin more directly by determining whether experimental manipulation of transgelin levels in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells led to changes in metastatic potential in vivo. METHODS: Isogenic CRC cell lines that differ in transgelin expression were characterized using in vitro assays of growth and invasiveness and a mouse tail vein assay of experimental metastasis. Downstream effects of transgelin overexpression were investigated by gene expression profiling and quantitative PCR. RESULTS: Stable overexpression of transgelin in RKO cells, which have low endogenous levels, led to increased invasiveness, growth at low density, and growth in soft agar. Overexpression also led to an increase in the number and size of lung metastases in the mouse tail vein injection model. Similarly, attenuation of transgelin expression in HCT116 cells, which have high endogenous levels, decreased metastases in the same model. Investigation of mRNA expression patterns showed that transgelin overexpression altered the levels of approximately 250 other transcripts, with over-representation of genes that affect function of actin or other cytoskeletal proteins. Changes included increases in HOOK1, SDCCAG8, ENAH/Mena, and TNS1 and decreases in EMB, BCL11B, and PTPRD. CONCLUSIONS: Increases or decreases in transgelin levels have reciprocal effects on tumor cell behavior, with higher expression promoting metastasis. Chronic overexpression influences steady-state levels of mRNAs for metastasis-related genes.

15818664	Association of sporadic chondrocalcinosis with a -4-basepair G-to-A transition in the 5'-untranslated region of ANKH that promotes enhanced expression of ANKH protein and excess generation of extracellular inorganic pyrophosphate. OBJECTIVE: Certain mutations in ANKH, which encodes a multiple-pass transmembrane protein that regulates inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) transport, are linked to autosomal-dominant familial chondrocalcinosis. This study investigated the potential for ANKH sequence variants to promote sporadic chondrocalcinosis. METHODS: ANKH variants identified by genomic sequencing were screened for association with chondrocalcinosis in 128 patients with severe sporadic chondrocalcinosis or pseudogout and in ethnically matched healthy controls. The effects of specific variants on expression of common markers were evaluated by in vitro transcription/translation. The function of these variants was studied in transfected human immortalized CH-8 articular chondrocytes. RESULTS: Sporadic chondrocalcinosis was associated with a G-to-A transition in the ANKH 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) at 4 bp upstream of the start codon (in homozygotes of the minor allele, genotype relative risk 6.0, P = 0.0006; overall genotype association P = 0.02). This -4-bp transition, as well as 2 mutations previously linked with familial and sporadic chondrocalcinosis (+14 bp C-to-T and C-terminal GAG deletion, respectively), but not the French familial chondrocalcinosis kindred 143-bp T-to-C mutation, increased reticulocyte ANKH transcription/ANKH translation in vitro. Transfection of complementary DNA for both the wild-type ANKH and the -4-bp ANKH protein variant promoted increased extracellular PPi in CH-8 cells, but unexpectedly, these ANKH mutants had divergent effects on the expression of extracellular PPi and the chondrocyte hypertrophy marker, type X collagen. CONCLUSION: A subset of sporadic chondrocalcinosis appears to be heritable via a -4-bp G-to-A ANKH 5'-UTR transition that up-regulates expression of ANKH and extracellular PPi in chondrocyte cells. Distinct ANKH mutations associated with heritable chondrocalcinosis may promote disease by divergent effects on extracellular PPi and chondrocyte hypertrophy, which is likely to mediate differences in the clinical phenotypes and severity of the disease.

22729903	Contribution of STAT4 gene single-nucleotide polymorphism to systemic lupus erythematosus in the Polish population. The STAT4 has been found to be a susceptible gene in the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in various populations. There are evident population differences in the context of clinical manifestations of SLE, therefore we investigated the prevalence of the STAT4 G > C (rs7582694) polymorphism in patients with SLE (n = 253) and controls (n = 521) in a sample of the Polish population. We found that patients with the STAT4 C/G and CC genotypes exhibited a 1.583-fold increased risk of SLE incidence (95 % CI = 1.168-2.145, p = 0.003), with OR for the C/C versus C/G and G/G genotypes was 1.967 (95 % CI = 1.152-3.358, p = 0.0119). The OR for the STAT4 C allele frequency showed a 1.539-fold increased risk of SLE (95 % CI = 1.209-1.959, p = 0.0004). We also observed an increased frequency of STAT4 C/C and C/G genotypes in SLE patients with renal symptoms OR = 2.259 (1.365-3.738, p = 0.0014), (p (corr) = 0.0238) and in SLE patients with neurologic manifestations OR = 2.867 (1.467-5.604, p = 0.0016), (p (corr) = 0.0272). Moreover, we found a contribution of STAT4 C/C and C/G genotypes to the presence of the anti-snRNP Ab OR = 3.237 (1.667-6.288, p = 0.0003), (p (corr) = 0.0051) and the presence of the anti-Scl-70 Ab OR = 2.665 (1.380-5.147, p = 0.0028), (p (corr) = 0.0476). Our studies confirmed an association of the STAT4 C (rs7582694) variant with the development of SLE and occurrence of some clinical manifestations of the disease.

25277705	Leukemia inhibitory factor protects the lung during respiratory syncytial viral infection. BACKGROUND: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infects the lung epithelium where it stimulates the production of numerous host cytokines that are associated with disease burden and acute lung injury. Characterizing the host cytokine response to RSV infection, the regulation of host cytokines and the impact of neutralizing an RSV-inducible cytokine during infection were undertaken in this study. METHODS: A549, primary human small airway epithelial (SAE) cells and wild-type, TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-b (Trif) and mitochondrial antiviral-signaling protein (Mavs) knockout (KO) mice were infected with RSV and cytokine responses were investigated by ELISA, multiplex analysis and qPCR. Neutralizing anti-leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) IgG or control IgG was administered to a group of wild-type animals prior to RSV infection. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: RSV-infected A549 and SAE cells release a network of cytokines, including newly identified RSV-inducible cytokines LIF, migration inhibitory factor (MIF), stem cell factor (SCF), CCL27, CXCL12 and stem cell growth factor beta (SCGF-b). These RSV-inducible cytokines were also observed in the airways of mice during an infection. To identify the regulation of RSV inducible cytokines, Mavs and Trif deficient animals were infected with RSV. In vivo induction of airway IL-1b, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-12(p40), IFN-g, CCL2, CCL5, CCL3, CXCL1, IP-10/CXCL10, IL-22, MIG/CXCL9 and MIF were dependent on Mavs expression in mice. Loss of Trif expression in mice altered the RSV induction of IL-1b, IL-5, CXCL12, MIF, LIF, CXCL12 and IFN-g. Silencing of retinoic acid-inducible gene-1 (RIG-I) expression in A549 cells had a greater impact on RSV-inducible cytokines than melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5 (MDA5) and laboratory of genetics and physiology 2 (LGP2), and Trif expression. To evaluate the role of LIF in the airways during RSV infection, animals were treated with neutralizing anti-LIF IgG, which enhanced RSV pathology observed with increased airspace protein content, apoptosis and airway hyperresponsiveness compared to control IgG treatment. CONCLUSIONS: RSV infection in the epithelium induces a network of immune factors to counter infection, primarily in a RIG-I dependent manner. Expression of LIF protects the lung from lung injury and enhanced pathology during RSV infection.

15130900	Urinary bladder cancer in Wegener's granulomatosis: risks and relation to cyclophosphamide. OBJECTIVE: To assess and characterise the risk of bladder cancer, and its relation to cyclophosphamide, in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. METHODS: In the population based, nationwide Swedish Inpatient Register a cohort of 1065 patients with Wegener's granulomatosis, 1969-95, was identified. Through linkage with the Swedish Cancer Register, all subjects in this cohort diagnosed with bladder cancer were identified. Nested within the cohort, a matched case-control study was performed to estimate the association between cyclophosphamide and bladder cancer using odds ratios (ORs) as relative risk. In the cohort the cumulative risk of bladder cancer after Wegener's granulomatosis, and the relative prevalence of a history of bladder cancer at the time of diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis, were also estimated. RESULTS: The median cumulative doses of cyclophosphamide among cases (n = 11) and controls (n = 25) were 113 g and 25 g, respectively. The risk of bladder cancer doubled for every 10 g increment in cyclophosphamide (OR = 2.0, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.8 to 4.9). Treatment duration longer than 1 year was associated with an eightfold increased risk (OR = 7.7, 95% CI 0.9 to 69). The absolute risk for bladder cancer in the cohort reached 10% 16 years after diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis, and a history of bladder cancer was (non-significantly) twice as common as expected at the time of diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis. CONCLUSION: The results indicate a dose-response relationship between cyclophosphamide and the risk of bladder cancer, high cumulative risks in the entire cohort, and also the possibility of risk factors operating even before Wegener's granulomatosis.

18257781	Co-inheritance of a PKD1 mutation and homozygous PKD2 variant: a potential modifier in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. BACKGROUND: Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), which is caused by mutations in polycystins 1 (PC1) and 2 (PC2), is one of the most commonly inherited renal diseases, affecting ~1 : 1000 Caucasians. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We screened Greek ADPKD patients with the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) assay and direct sequencing. RESULTS: We identified a patient homozygous for a nucleotide change c.1445T > G, resulting in a novel homozygous substitution of the non-polar hydrophobic phenylalanine to the polar hydrophilic cysteine in exon 6 at codon 482 (p.F482C) of the PKD2 gene and a de-novo PKD1 splice-site variant IVS21-2delAG. We did not find this PKD2 variant in a screen of 280 chromosomes of healthy subjects, supporting its pathogenicity. The proband's parents did not have the PKD1 mutation. Real-time PCR of the PKD2 transcript from a skin biopsy revealed 20-fold higher expression in the patient than in a healthy subject and was higher in the patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) than in those of her heterozygote daughter and a healthy subject. The greater gene expression was also supported by Western blotting. Inner medullar collecting duct (IMCD) cells transfected with the mutant PKD2 mouse gene presented a perinuclear and diffuse cytoplasmic localization compared with the wild type ER localization. Patch-clamping of PBMCs from the p.F482C homozygous and heterozygous subjects revealed lower polycystin-2 channel function than in controls. CONCLUSIONS: We report for the first time a patient with ADPKD who is heterozygous for a de novo PKD1 variant and homozygous for a novel PKD2 mutation.

20534762	Two novel mutations of the TSH-beta subunit gene underlying congenital central hypothyroidism undetectable in neonatal TSH screening. CONTEXT: Patients with TSH-beta subunit defects and congenital hypothyroidism are missed by TSH-based neonatal screening. OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to report the molecular consequences of a novel splice-junction mutation and a novel missense mutation in the TSH-beta subunit gene found in two patients with congenital central hypothyroidism and conventional treatment-resistant anemia. RESULTS: Patient 1 had a homozygous G to A nucleotide change at the 5' donor splice site of exon/intron 2. This resulted in a silent change at codon 34 of the mature protein. In vitro splicing assays showed that the mutant minigene dramatically affected pre-mRNA processing, causing exon 2 to be completely skipped. The putative product from a new out-of-frame translational start point in exon 3 is expected to yield a nonsense 25-amino-acid peptide. In patient 2, sequence analysis revealed a compound heterozygosis for the already reported 313delT (C105Vfs114X) mutation and for a second novel mutation in exon 3, substituting G for A at cDNA nucleotide position 323, resulting in a C88Y change. This cysteine residue is conserved among all dimeric pituitary and placental glycoprotein hormone-beta subunits. Data from in silico analysis confirmed that the C88Y mutation would affect subunit conformation. Indeed, two different bioinformatics approaches, PolyPhen and SIFT analysis, predicted C88Y to be a damaging substitution. CONCLUSIONS: In isolated TSH deficiency, the exact molecular diagnosis is mandatory for diagnosis of isolated pituitary deficiency, delineation of prognosis, and genetic counseling. Moreover, diagnosis of central hypothyroidism should be considered in the face of severe infant anemia of uncertain etiology.

16970763	Mutations in the NDP gene: contribution to Norrie disease, familial exudative vitreoretinopathy and retinopathy of prematurity. BACKGROUND: To examine the contribution of mutations within the Norrie disease (NDP) gene to the clinically similar retinal diseases Norrie disease, X-linked familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR), Coat's disease and retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). METHODS: A dataset comprising 13 Norrie-FEVR, one Coat's disease, 31 ROP patients and 90 ex-premature babies of <32 weeks' gestation underwent an ophthalmologic examination and were screened for mutations within the NDP gene by direct DNA sequencing, denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography or gel electrophoresis. Controls were only screened using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and gel electrophoresis. Confirmation of mutations identified was obtained by DNA sequencing. RESULTS: Evidence for two novel mutations in the NDP gene was presented: Leu103Val in one FEVR patient and His43Arg in monozygotic twin Norrie disease patients. Furthermore, a previously described 14-bp deletion located in the 5' unstranslated region of the NDP gene was detected in three cases of regressed ROP. A second heterozygotic 14-bp deletion was detected in an unaffected ex-premature girl. Only two of the 13 Norrie-FEVR index cases had the full features of Norrie disease with deafness and mental retardation. CONCLUSION: Two novel mutations within the coding region of the NDP gene were found, one associated with a severe disease phenotypes of Norrie disease and the other with FEVR. A deletion within the non-coding region was associated with only mild-regressed ROP, despite the presence of low birthweight, prematurity and exposure to oxygen. In full-term children with retinal detachment only 15% appear to have the full features of Norrie disease and this is important for counselling parents on the possible long-term outcome.

19207031	Growth hormone dose in growth hormone-deficient adults is not associated with IGF-1 gene polymorphisms. AIMS: Several SNPs and a microsatellite cytosine-adenine repeat promoter polymorphism of the IGF-1 gene have been reported to be associated with circulating IGF-1 serum concentrations. Variance in IGF-1 concentrations due to genetic variations may affect different response to growth hormone (GH) treatment, resulting in different individually required GH-doses in GH-deficient patients. The aim of this study was to test if the IGF-1 gene polymorphisms are associated with the GH-dose of GH-deficient adults. MATERIALS & METHODS: A total of nine tagging SNPs, five additionally selected SNPs and a cytosine-adenine repeat polymorphism were determined in 133 German adult patients (66 men, 67 women; mean age 45.4 years +/- 13.1 standard deviation; majority Caucasian) with GH-deficiency (GHD) of different origin, derived from the prospective Pfizer International Metabolic Study (KIMS) Pharmacogenetics Study. Patients received GH-treatment for 12 months with finished dose-titration of GH and centralized IGF-1 measurements. GH-dose after 1 year of treatment, IGF-1 concentrations, IGF-1-standard deviation score (SDS), the IGF-1:GH ratio and anthropometric data were analyzed by genotype. RESULTS: Except for rs1019731, which showed a significant difference of IGF-1-SDS by genotypes (p = 0.02), all polymorphisms showed no associations with the GH-doses, IGF-1 concentrations, IGF-1-SDS and IGF-1:GH ratio after adjusting for the confounding variables gender, age and BMI. CONCLUSION: IGF-1 gene polymorphisms were not associated with the responsiveness to exogenous GH in GHD. Therefore, genetic variations of the IGF-1 gene seem not to be major influencing factors of the GH-IGF-axis causing variable response to exogenous GH-treatment.

19276632	Mutation analysis of FOXF2 in patients with disorders of sex development (DSD) in combination with cleft palate. In contrast to disorders of sexual differentiation caused by lack of androgen production or inhibited androgen action, defects affecting development of the bipotent genital anlagen have rarely been investigated in humans. We have previously documented that the transcription factor FOXF2 is highly expressed in human foreskin. Moreover, Foxf2 knockout mice present with cleft palate in combination with hypoplasia of the genital tubercle. We hypothesized that humans with disorders of sex development (DSD) in combination with cleft palate could have mutations in the FOXF2 gene. Eighteen children with DSD and cleft palate were identified in the L beck DSD database (about 1,500 entries). Genomic DNA sequence analysis of the FOXF2 gene was performed and compared with 10 normal female and 10 normal male controls, respectively. Two heterozygous DNA sequence variations were solely present in one single patient each but in none of the 20 normal controls: a duplication of GCC (c.97GCC[9]+[10]) resulting in an extra alanine within exon 1 and a 25*G>A substitution in the 3'-untranslated region. Two patients carried a c.262G>A sequence variation predicting for an Ala88Thr exchange which was also detected in 2 normal controls. Two silent mutations, c.1272C>T (Ser424Ser) and c.1284T>C (Tyr428Tyr), respectively, occurred in the coding region of exon 2, again in both patients and normal controls. In conclusion, the majority of the detected sequence alterations were polymorphisms without obvious functional relevance. However, it cannot be excluded that the 2 unique DNA sequence alterations could have affected FOXF2 on the mRNA or protein level thus contributing to the observed disturbances in genital and palate development.

21219851	A novel mutation screening system for Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, vascular type by high-resolution melting curve analysis in combination with small amplicon genotyping using genomic DNA. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type (vEDS) (MIM #130050) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by type III procollagen gene (COL3A1) mutations. Most COL3A1 mutations are detected by using total RNA from patient-derived fibroblasts, which requires an invasive skin biopsy. High-resolution melting curve analysis (hrMCA) has recently been developed as a post-PCR mutation scanning method which enables simple, rapid, cost-effective, and highly sensitive mutation screening of large genes. We established a hrMCA method to screen for COL3A1 mutations using genomic DNA. PCR primers pairs for COL3A1 (52 amplicons) were designed to cover all coding regions of the 52 exons, including the splicing sites. We used 15 DNA samples (8 validation samples and 7 samples of clinically suspected vEDS patients) in this study. The eight known COL3A1 mutations in validation samples were all successfully detected by the hrMCA. In addition, we identified five novel COL3A1 mutations, including one deletion (c.2187delA) and one nonsense mutation (c.2992C>T) that could not be determined by the conventional total RNA method. Furthermore, we established a small amplicon genotyping (SAG) method for detecting three high frequency coding-region SNPs (rs1800255:G>A, rs1801184:T>C, and rs2271683:A>G) in COL3A1 to differentiate mutations before sequencing. The use of hrMCA in combination with SAG from genomic DNA enables rapid detection of COL3A1 mutations with high efficiency and specificity. A better understanding of the genotype-phenotype correlation in COL3A1 using this method will lead to improve in diagnosis and treatment.

23069675	Critical role of neuronal pentraxin 1 in mitochondria-mediated hypoxic-ischemic neuronal injury. Developing brain is highly susceptible to hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury leading to severe neurological disabilities in surviving infants and children. Previously, we have reported induction of neuronal pentraxin 1 (NP1), a novel neuronal protein of long-pentraxin family, following HI neuronal injury. Here, we investigated how this specific signal is propagated to cause the HI neuronal death. We used wild-type (WT) and NP1 knockout (NP1-KO) mouse hippocampal cultures, modeled in vitro following exposure to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD), and in vivo neonatal (P9-10) mouse model of HI brain injury. Our results show induction of NP1 in primary hippocampal neurons following OGD exposure (4-8 h) and in the ipsilateral hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions at 24-48 h post-HI compared to the contralateral side. We also found increased PTEN activity concurrent with OGD time-dependent (4-8 h) dephosphorylation of Akt (Ser473) and GSK-3b (Ser9). OGD also caused a time-dependent decrease in the phosphorylation of Bad (Ser136), and Bax protein levels. Immunofluorescence staining and subcellular fractionation analyses revealed increased mitochondrial translocation of Bad and Bax proteins from cytoplasm following OGD (4 h) and simultaneously increased release of Cyt C from mitochondria followed by activation of caspase-3. NP1 protein was immunoprecipitated with Bad and Bax proteins; OGD caused increased interactions of NP1 with Bad and Bax, thereby, facilitating their mitochondrial translocation and dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential (D (m)). This NP1 induction preceded the increased mitochondrial release of cytochrome C (Cyt C) into the cytosol, activation of caspase-3 and OGD time-dependent cell death in WT primary hippocampal neurons. In contrast, in NP1-KO neurons there was no translocation of Bad and Bax from cytosol to the mitochondria, and no evidence of D (m) loss, increased Cyt C release and caspase-3 activation following OGD; which resulted in significantly reduced neuronal death. Our results indicate a regulatory role of NP1 in Bad/Bax-dependent mitochondrial release of Cyt C and caspase-3 activation. Together our findings demonstrate a novel mechanism by which NP1 regulates mitochondria-driven hippocampal cell death; suggesting NP1 as a potential therapeutic target against HI brain injury in neonates.

25874935	Neuroprotective effect of neuroserpin in oxygen-glucose deprivation- and reoxygenation-treated rat astrocytes in vitro. Neuroserpin (NSP) reportedly exerts neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischemic animal models and patients; however, the mechanism of protection is poorly understood. We thus attempted to confirm neuroprotective effects of NSP on astrocytes in the ischemic state and then explored the relative mechanisms. Astrocytes from neonatal rats were treated with oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by reoxygenation (OGD/R). To confirm the neuroprotective effects of NSP, we measured the cell survival rate, relative lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release; we also performed morphological methods, namely Hoechst 33342 staining and Annexin V assay. To explore the potential mechanisms of NSP, the release of nitric oxide (NO) and TNF-alpha related to NSP administration were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The proteins related to the NF-kappaB, ERK1/2, and PI3K/Akt pathways were investigated by Western blotting. To verify the cause-and-effect relationship between neuroprotection and the NF-kappaB pathway, a NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor sc3060 was employed to observe the effects of NSP-induced neuroprotection. We found that NSP significantly increased the cell survival rate and reduced LDH release in OGD/R-treated astrocytes. It also reduced NO/TNF-alpha release. Western blotting showed that the protein levels of p-IKKBalpha/beta and P65 were upregulated by the OGD/R treatment and such effects were significantly inhibited by NSP administration. The NSP-induced inhibition could be significantly reversed by administration of the NF-kappaB pathway inhibitor sc3060, whereas, expressions of p-ERK1, p-ERK2, and p-AKT were upregulated by the OGD/R treatment; however, their levels were unchanged by NSP administration. Our results thus verified the neuroprotective effects of NSP in ischemic astrocytes. The potential mechanisms include inhibition of the release of NO/TNF-alpha and repression of the NF-kappaB signaling pathways. Our data also indicated that NSP has little influence on the MAPK and PI3K/Akt pathways. 

28846666	Interleukin 6 (IL-6) and Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-alpha) Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), Inflammation and Metabolism in Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in Inner Mongolia. BACKGROUND Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is common all over the world. GDM women are with inflammatory and metabolisms abnormalities. However, few studies have focused on the association of IL-65-72C/G and TNF-alpha -857C/T single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), inflammatory biomarkers, and metabolic indexes in women with GDM, especially in the Inner Mongolia population. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of IL-65-72C/G and TNF-alpha -857C/T SNPs, and inflammation and metabolic biomarkers in women with GDM pregnancies. MATERIAL AND METHODS Blood samples and placentas from 140 women with GDM and 140 women with healthy pregnancies were collected. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and MassARRAY-IPLEX were performed to analyze IL-65-72C/G and TNF-alpha -857C/T SNPs. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to analyze inflammatory biomarkers and adipokines. RESULTS Distribution frequency of TNF-alpha -857CT (OR=3.316, 95% CI=1.092-8.304, p=0.025) in women with GDM pregnancies were obviously higher than that in women with healthy pregnancies. Women with GDM were of older maternal age, had higher BMI, were more nulliparous, and had T2DM and GDM history, compared to women with healthy pregnancies (p   <0.05). Inflammatory biomarkers in serum (hs-CRP, IL-6, IL-8, IL-6/IL-10 ratio) and placental (NF-kappaB, IL-6, IL-8, IL-6/IL-10 ratio, IL-1b, TNF-alpha) were significantly different (p   <0.05) between women with GDM and women with healthy pregnancies. Differences were found for serum FBG, FINS, HOMA-IR, and HOMA-beta, and placental IRS-1, IRS-2, leptin, adiponectin, visfatin, RBP-4, chemerin, nesfatin-1, FATP-4, EL, LPL, FABP-1, FABP-3, FABP-4, and FABP-5. CONCLUSIONS TNF-alpha -857C/T SNP, hs-CRP, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-6/IL-10 were associated with GDM in women from Inner Mongolia, as was serious inflammation and disordered lipid and glucose metabolisms.

15459975	Fine mapping and identification of a candidate gene SSH1 in disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis. Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) is an uncommon autosomal dominant chronic keratinization disorder, characterized by multiple superficial keratotic lesions surrounded by a slightly raised keratotic border. Thus far, although two loci for DSAP have been identified, the genetic basis and pathogenesis of this disorder have not been elucidated yet. In this study, we performed a genome-wide linkage analysis in three Chinese affected families and localized the gene in an 8.0 cM interval defined by D12S330 and D12S354 on chromosome 12. Upon screening 30 candidate genes, we identified a missense mutation, p.Ser63Asn in SSH1 in one family, a frameshift mutation, p.Ser19CysfsX24 in an alternative variant (isoform f) of SSH1 in another family, and a frameshift mutation, p.Pro27ProfsX54 in the same alternative variant in one non-familial case with DSAP. SSH1 encodes a phosphatase that plays a pivotal role in actin dynamics. Our data suggested that cytoskeleton disorganization in epidermal cells is likely associated with the pathogenesis of DSAP.

16330669	Array-based comparative genomic hybridization analysis reveals recurrent chromosomal alterations and prognostic parameters in primary cutaneous large B-cell lymphoma. PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical relevance of genomic aberrations in primary cutaneous large B-cell lymphoma (PCLBCL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Skin biopsy samples of 31 patients with a PCLBCL classified as either primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma (PCFCL; n = 19) or PCLBCL, leg type (n = 12), according to the WHO-European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) classification, were investigated using array-based comparative genomic hybridization, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and examination of promoter hypermethylation. RESULTS: The most recurrent alterations in PCFCL were high-level DNA amplifications at 2p16.1 (63%) and deletion of chromosome 14q32.33 (68%). FISH analysis confirmed c-REL amplification in patients with gains at 2p16.1. In PCLBCL, leg type, most prominent aberrations were a high-level DNA amplification of 18q21.31-q21.33 (67%), including the BCL-2 and MALT1 genes as confirmed by FISH, and deletions of a small region within 9p21.3 containing the CDKN2A, CDKN2B, and NSG-x genes. Homozygous deletion of 9p21.3 was detected in five of 12 patients with PCLBCL, leg type, but in zero of 19 patients with PCFCL. Complete methylation of the promoter region of the CDKN2A gene was demonstrated in one PCLBCL, leg type, patient with hemizygous deletion, in one patient without deletion, but in zero of 19 patients with PCFCL. Seven of seven PCLBCL, leg type, patients with deletion of 9p21.3 and/or complete methylation of CDKN2A died as a result of their lymphoma. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate prominent differences in chromosomal alterations between PCFCL and PCLBCL, leg type, that support their classification as separate entities within the WHO-EORTC scheme. Inactivation of CDKN2A by either deletion or methylation of its promoter could be an important prognostic parameter for the group of PCLBCL, leg type.

19208385	Osteogenesis imperfecta type III with intracranial hemorrhage and brachydactyly associated with mutations in exon 49 of COL1A2. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a heritable bone disorder characterized by fractures with minimal trauma. Intracranial hemorrhage has been reported in a small number of OI patients. Here we describe three patients, a boy (aged 15 years) and two girls (aged 17 and 7 years) with OI type III who suffered intracranial hemorrhage and in addition had brachydactyly and nail hypoplasia. In all of these patients, OI was caused by glycine mutations affecting exon 49 of the COL1A2 gene, which codes for the most carboxy-terminal part of the triple-helical domain of the collagen type I alpha 2 chain. These observations suggest that mutations in this region of the collagen type I alpha 2 chain carry a high risk of abnormal limb development and intracranial bleeding.

19681452	Bilateral haemorrhagic infarction of the globus pallidus after cocaine and alcohol intoxication. Cocaine is a risk factor for both ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke. We present the case of a 31-year-old man with bilateral ischemia of the globus pallidus after excessive alcohol and intranasal cocaine use. Drug-related globus pallidus infarctions are most often associated with heroin. Bilateral basal ganglia infarcts after the use of cocaine, without concurrent heroin use, have never been reported. In our patient, transient cardiac arrhythmia or respiratory dysfunction related to cocaine and/or ethanol use were the most likely causes of cerebral hypoperfusion.

20709368	The fibrinogen gamma 10034C>T polymorphism is not associated with Peripheral Arterial Disease. Conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin plays an essential role in hemostasis and results in stabilization of the fibrin clot. Fibrinogen consists of three pairs of non-identical polypeptide chains, encoded by different genes (fibrinogen alpha [FGA], fibrinogen beta [FGB] and fibrinogen gamma [FGG]). A functional single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the 3' untranslated region of the FGG gene (FGG 10034C>T, rs2066865) has been associated with deep venous thrombosis and myocardial infarction. Aim of the present study was to analyze the role of this polymorphism in peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The study was designed as case-control study including 891 patients with documented PAD and 777 control subjects. FGG genotypes were determined by exonuclease (TaqMan) assays. FGG genotype frequencies were not significantly different between PAD patients (CC: 57.3%, CT: 36.7%, TT: 5.8%) and control subjects (CC: 60.9%, CT: 33.5%, TT 5.6%; p=0.35). In a multivariate logistic regression analysis including age, sex, smoking, diabetes, arterial hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, the FGG 10034 T variant was not significantly associated with the presence of PAD (Odds ratio 1.07, 95% confidence interval 0.84 - 1.37; p = 0.60). The FGG 10034C>T polymorphism was furthermore not associated with age at onset of PAD. We conclude that the thrombophilic FGG 10034 T gene variant does not contribute to the genetic susceptibility to PAD.

21879313	Genotype rs8099917 near the IL28B gene and amino acid substitution at position 70 in the core region of the hepatitis C virus are determinants of serum apolipoprotein B-100 concentration in chronic hepatitis C. The life cycle of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is closely related to host lipoprotein metabolism. Serum levels of lipid are associated with the response to pegylated interferon plus ribavirin (PEG-IFN/RBV) therapy, while single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) around the human interleukin 28B (IL28B) gene locus and amino acid substitutions in the core region of the HCV have been reported to affect the efficacy of PEG-IFN/RBV therapy in chronic hepatitis with HCV genotype 1b infection. The aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship between serum lipid and factors that are able to predict the efficacy of PEG-IFN/RB therapy, with specific focus on apolipoprotein B-100 (apoB-100) in 148 subjects with chronic HCV G1b infection. Our results demonstrated that both the aa 70 substitution in the core region of the HCV and the rs8099917 SNP located proximal to the IL28B were independent factors in determining serum apoB-100 and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels. A significant association was noted between higher levels of apoB-100 (P = 1.1 10(-3)) and LDL cholesterol (P = 0.02) and the subjects having Arg70. A significant association was also observed between subjects carrying the rs8099917 TT responder genotype and higher levels of apoB-100 (P = 6.4 10(-3)) and LDL cholesterol (P = 4.2 10(-3)). Our results suggest that apoB-100 and LDL cholesterol are markers of impaired cellular lipoprotein pathways and/or host endogenous interferon response to HCV in chronic HCV infection. In particular, serum apoB-100 concentration might be an informative marker for judging changes in HCV-associated intracellular lipoprotein metabolism in patients carrying the rs8099917 responder genotype.

27798239	Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase IIb negatively regulates invadopodia formation and suppresses an invasive cellular phenotype. The type II phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4KII) enzymes synthesize the lipid phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI(4)P), which has been detected at the Golgi complex and endosomal compartments and recruits clathrin adaptors. Despite common mechanistic similarities between the isoforms, the extent of their redundancy is unclear. We found that depletion of PI4KIIa and PI4KIIb using small interfering RNA led to actin remodeling. Depletion of PI4KIIb also induced the formation of invadopodia containing membrane type I matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP). Depletion of PI4KII isoforms also differentially affected trans-Golgi network (TGN) pools of PI(4)P and post-TGN traffic. PI4KIIb depletion caused increased MT1-MMP trafficking to invasive structures at the plasma membrane and was accompanied by reduced colocalization of MT1-MMP with membranes containing the endosomal markers Rab5 and Rab7 but increased localization with the exocytic Rab8. Depletion of PI4KIIb was sufficient to confer an aggressive invasive phenotype on minimally invasive HeLa and MCF-7 cell lines. Mining oncogenomic databases revealed that loss of the PI4K2B allele and underexpression of PI4KIIb mRNA are associated with human cancers. This finding supports the cell data and suggests that PI4KIIb may be a clinically significant suppressor of invasion. We propose that PI4KIIb synthesizes a pool of PI(4)P that maintains MT1-MMP traffic in the degradative pathway and suppresses the formation of invadopodia.

27993978	CenpH regulates meiotic G2/M transition by modulating the APC/CCdh1-cyclin B1 pathway in oocytes. Meiotic resumption (G2/M transition) and progression through meiosis I (MI) are two key stages for producing fertilization-competent eggs. Here, we report that CenpH, a component of the kinetochore inner plate, is responsible for G2/M transition in meiotic mouse oocytes. Depletion of CenpH by morpholino injection decreased cyclin B1 levels, resulting in attenuation of maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activation, and severely compromised meiotic resumption. CenpH protects cyclin B1 from destruction by competing with the action of APC/C(Cdh1) Impaired G2/M transition after CenpH depletion could be rescued by expression of exogenous cyclin B1. Unexpectedly, blocking CenpH did not affect spindle organization and meiotic cell cycle progression after germinal vesicle breakdown. Our findings reveal a novel role of CenpH in regulating meiotic G2/M transition by acting via the APC/C(Cdh1)-cyclin B1 pathway.

15111599	CRYBA3/A1 gene mutation associated with suture-sparing autosomal dominant congenital nuclear cataract: a novel phenotype. PURPOSE: To identify the genetic defect leading to the congenital nuclear cataract affecting a large five-generation Swiss family. METHODS: Family history and clinical data were recorded. The phenotype was documented by both slit lamp and Scheimpflug photography. One cortical lens was evaluated by electron microscopy after cataract extraction. Lenticular phenotyping and genotyping were performed independently with short tandem repeat polymorphism. Linkage analysis was performed, and candidate genes were PCR amplified and screened for mutations on both strands using direct sequencing. RESULTS: Affected individuals had a congenital nuclear lactescent cataract in both eyes. Linkage was observed on chromosome 17 for DNA marker D17S1857 (lod score: 3.44 at theta = 0). Direct sequencing of CRYBA3/A1, which maps to the vicinity, revealed an in-frame 3-bp deletion in exon 4 (279delGAG). This mutation involved a deletion of glycine-91, cosegregated in all affected individuals, and was not observed in unaffected individuals or in 250 normal control subjects from the same ethnic background. Electron microscopy showed that cortical lens fiber morphology was normal. CONCLUSIONS: The DeltaG91 mutation in CRYBA3/A1 is associated with an autosomal dominant congenital nuclear lactescent cataract. A splice mutation (IVS3+1G/A) in this gene has been reported in a zonular cataract with sutural opacities. These results indicate phenotypic heterogeneity related to mutations in this gene.

15820770	Vitamin D-binding protein gene polymorphism association with IA-2 autoantibodies in type 1 diabetes. BACKGROUND: Vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) is the main systemic transporter of 1.25(OH)2D3 and is essential for its cellular endocytosis. There are two known polymorphisms in exon 11 of the DBP gene resulting in amino acid variants: GAT-->GAG substitution replaces aspartic acid by glutamic acid in codon 416; and ACG-->AAG substitution in codon 420 leads to an exchange of threonine for lysine. These DBP variants lead to differences in the affinity for 1.25(OH)2D3. Correlations between DBP alleles and type 1 diabetes have been described in different populations. Therefore, we investigated the polymorphism in codon 416 of the DBP gene for an association with autoimmune markers of type 1 diabetes. DESIGN AND METHODS: The present analysis was a case control study. 110 patients, 68 controls, and 115 first-degree relatives were genotyped for the DBP polymorphism in codon 416. DNA typing of DBP locus was performed by the PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism method (RFLP). RESULTS: The frequencies of the Asp/Glu and Glu/Glu were significantly increased in diabetic subjects with detectable IA-2 antibodies (P < 0.01). On the contrary, the DBP Glu-containing genotype was not accompanied by differences in the prevalence of GAD65 antibodies. These finding supports a role of the vitamin D endocrine system in the autoimmune process of type 1 diabetes.

16186368	Characterization of Bietti crystalline dystrophy patients with CYP4V2 mutations. PURPOSE: Mutations of the CYP4V2 gene, a novel family member of the cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 4q35, have recently been identified in patients with Bietti crystalline dystrophy (BCD). The aim of this study was to investigate the spectrum of mutations in this gene in BCD patients from Singapore, and to characterize their phenotype. METHODS: Nine patients with BCD from six families were recruited into the study. The 11 exons of the CYP4V2 gene were amplified from genomic DNA of patients by polymerase chain reaction and then sequenced. Detailed characterization of the patients' phenotype was performed with fundal photography, visual field testing, fundal fluorescein angiography, and electroretinography (ERG). RESULTS: Three pathogenic mutations were identified; two mutations, S482X and K386T, were novel and found in three patients. The third mutation, a previously identified 15-bp deletion that included the 3' splice site for exon 7, was found in all nine patients, with six patients carrying the deletion in the homozygous state. Haplotype analysis in patients and controls indicated a founder effect for this deletion mutation in exon 7. Clinical heterogeneity was present in the patients. Compound heterozygotes for the deletion in exon 7 seemed to have more severe disease compared to patients homozygous for the deletion. There was good correlation between clinical stage of disease and ERG changes, but age did not correlate with disease severity. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified novel mutations in the CYP4V2 gene as a cause of BCD. A high carrier frequency for the 15-bp deletion in exon 7 may exist in the Singapore population. Phenotype characterization showed clinical heterogeneity, and age did not correlate with disease severity.

17511042	An extremely rare case of delusional parasitosis in a chronic hepatitis C patient during pegylated interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin treatment. During treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients with interferon and ribavirin, a lot of side effects are described. Twenty-three percent to 44% of patients develop depression. A minority of patients evolve to psychosis. To the best of our knowledge, no cases of psychogenic parasitosis occurring during interferon therapy have been described in the literature. We present a 49-year-old woman who developed a delusional parasitosis during treatment with pegylated interferon alpha-2b weekly and ribavirin. She complained of seeing parasites and the larvae of fleas in her stools. This could not be confirmed by any technical examination. All the complaints disappeared after stopping pegylated interferon alpha-2b and reappeared after restarting it. She had a complete sustained viral response.

26110643	Protein-Trap Insertional Mutagenesis Uncovers New Genes Involved in Zebrafish Skin Development, Including a Neuregulin 2a-Based ErbB Signaling Pathway Required during Median Fin Fold Morphogenesis. Skin disorders are widespread, but available treatments are limited. A more comprehensive understanding of skin development mechanisms will drive identification of new treatment targets and modalities. Here we report the Zebrafish Integument Project (ZIP), an expression-driven platform for identifying new skin genes and phenotypes in the vertebrate model Danio rerio (zebrafish). In vivo selection for skin-specific expression of gene-break transposon (GBT) mutant lines identified eleven new, revertible GBT alleles of genes involved in skin development. Eight genes--fras1, grip1, hmcn1, msxc, col4a4, ahnak, capn12, and nrg2a--had been described in an integumentary context to varying degrees, while arhgef25b, fkbp10b, and megf6a emerged as novel skin genes. Embryos homozygous for a GBT insertion within neuregulin 2a (nrg2a) revealed a novel requirement for a Neuregulin 2a (Nrg2a)-ErbB2/3-AKT signaling pathway governing the apicobasal organization of a subset of epidermal cells during median fin fold (MFF) morphogenesis. In nrg2a mutant larvae, the basal keratinocytes within the apical MFF, known as ridge cells, displayed reduced pAKT levels as well as reduced apical domains and exaggerated basolateral domains. Those defects compromised proper ridge cell elongation into a flattened epithelial morphology, resulting in thickened MFF edges. Pharmacological inhibition verified that Nrg2a signals through the ErbB receptor tyrosine kinase network. Moreover, knockdown of the epithelial polarity regulator and tumor suppressor lgl2 ameliorated the nrg2a mutant phenotype. Identifying Lgl2 as an antagonist of Nrg2a-ErbB signaling revealed a significantly earlier role for Lgl2 during epidermal morphogenesis than has been described to date. Furthermore, our findings demonstrated that successive, coordinated ridge cell shape changes drive apical MFF development, making MFF ridge cells a valuable model for investigating how the coordinated regulation of cell polarity and cell shape changes serves as a crucial mechanism of epithelial morphogenesis.

18179903	Mutation analysis of CHRNA1, CHRNB1, CHRND, and RAPSN genes in multiple pterygium syndrome/fetal akinesia patients. Multiple pterygium syndromes (MPS) comprise a group of multiple congenital anomaly disorders characterized by webbing (pterygia) of the neck, elbows, and/or knees and joint contractures (arthrogryposis). MPS are phenotypically and genetically heterogeneous but are traditionally divided into prenatally lethal and nonlethal (Escobar) types. Previously, we and others reported that recessive mutations in the embryonal acetylcholine receptor g subunit (CHRNG) can cause both lethal and nonlethal MPS, thus demonstrating that pterygia resulted from fetal akinesia. We hypothesized that mutations in acetylcholine receptor-related genes might also result in a MPS/fetal akinesia phenotype and so we analyzed 15 cases of lethal MPS/fetal akinesia without CHRNG mutations for mutations in the CHRNA1, CHRNB1, CHRND, and rapsyn (RAPSN) genes. No CHRNA1, CHRNB1, or CHRND mutations were detected, but a homozygous RAPSN frameshift mutation, c.1177-1178delAA, was identified in a family with three children affected with lethal fetal akinesia sequence. Previously, RAPSN mutations have been reported in congenital myasthenia. Functional studies were consistent with the hypothesis that whereas incomplete loss of rapsyn function may cause congenital myasthenia, more severe loss of function can result in a lethal fetal akinesia phenotype.

19353688	Pure monosomy and pure trisomy of 13q21.2-31.1 consequent to a familial insertional translocation: exclusion of PCDH9 as the responsible gene for autosomal dominant auditory neuropathy (AUNA1). Insertional translocations (IT) are rare structural rearrangements. Offspring of IT balanced carriers are at high risk to have either pure partial trisomy or monosomy for the inserted segment as manifested by "pure" phenotypes. We describe an IT between chromosomes 3 and 13 segregating in a three-generation pedigree. Short tandem repeat (STR) segregation analysis and array-comparative genomic hybridization were used to define the IT as a 25.1 Mb segment spanning 13q21.2-q31.1. The phenotype of pure monosomy included deafness, duodenal stenosis, developmental and growth delay, vertebral anomalies, and facial dysmorphisms; the trisomy was manifested by only minor dysmorphisms. As the AUNA1 deafness locus on 13q14-21 overlaps the IT in the PCDH9 (protocadherin-9) gene region, PCDH9 was investigated as a candidate gene for deafness in both families. Genotyping of STRs and single nucleotide polymorphisms defined the AUNA1 breakpoint as 35 kb 5' to PCDH9, with a 2.4 Mb area of overlap with the IT. DNA sequencing of coding regions in the AUNA1 family and in the retained homologue chromosome in the monosomic patient revealed no mutations. We conclude that AUNA1 deafness does not share a common etiology with deafness associated with monosomy 13q21.2-q31.3; deafness may result from monosomy of PCHD9 or another gene in the IT, as has been demonstrated in contiguous gene deletion syndromes. Precise characterization of the breakpoints of the translocated region is useful to identify which genes may be contributing to the phenotype, either through haploinsufficiency or extra dosage effects, in order to define genotype-phenotype correlations.

21126715	A Taiwanese boy with congenital generalized lipodystrophy caused by homozygous Ile262fs mutation in the BSCL2 gene. Congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) is a rare autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by a near-complete absence of adipose tissue from birth or early infancy. Mutations in the BSCL2 gene are known to result in CGL2, a more severe phenotype than CGL1, with earlier onset, more extensive fat loss and biochemical changes, more severe intellectual impairment, and more severe cardiomyopathy. We report a 3-month-old Taiwanese boy with initial presentation of a lack of subcutaneous fat, prominent musculature, generalized eruptive xanthomas, and extreme hypertriglyceridemia. Absence of mechanical adipose tissue in the orbits and scalp was revealed by head magnetic resonance imaging. Hepatomegaly was noticed, and histological examination of a liver biopsy specimen suggested severe hepatic steatosis and periportal necrosis. However, echocardiography indicated no sign of cardiomyopathy and he showed no distinct intellectual impairment that interfered with daily life. About 1 year later, abdominal computed tomography revealed enlargement of kidneys. He had a homozygous insertion of a nucleotide, 783insG (Ile262fs mutation), in exon 7 of the BSCL2 gene. We reviewed the genotype of CGL cases from Japan, India, China and Taiwan, and found that BSCL2 is a major causative gene for CGL in Asian.

28068934	Concordance between PIK3CA mutations in endoscopic biopsy and surgically resected specimens of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: PIK3CA mutations are expected to be potential therapeutic targets for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). We aimed to clarify the concordance between PIK3CA mutations detected in endoscopic biopsy specimens and corresponding surgically resected specimens. METHODS: We examined five hotspot mutations in the PIK3CA gene (E542K, E545K, E546K, H1047R, and H1047L) in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue sections of paired endoscopic biopsy and surgically resected specimens from 181 patients undergoing curative resection for ESCC between 2000 and 2011 using a Luminex technology-based multiplex gene mutation detection kit. RESULTS: Mutation analyses were successfully performed for both endoscopic biopsy and surgically resected specimens in all the cases. A PIK3CA mutation was detected in either type of specimen in 13 cases (7.2%, 95% confidence interval: 3.9-12.0). The overall concordance rate, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 98.3% (178/181), 90.9% (10/11), and 98.8% (168/170), respectively. Among patients with a PIK3CA mutation detected in both types of specimens, the concordance between PIK3CA mutation genotypes was 100%. There were three cases with a discordant mutation status between the types of specimens (PIK3CA mutation in surgically resected specimen and wild-type in biopsy specimen in two cases, and the opposite pattern in one case), suggesting possible intratumoral heterogeneity in the PIK3CA mutation status. CONCLUSIONS: The PIK3CA mutation status was highly concordant between endoscopic biopsy and surgically resected specimens from the same patient, suggesting that endoscopic biopsy specimens can be clinically used to detect PIK3CA mutations in patients with ESCC.

16252083	Polymorphisms of the DNA mismatch repair gene HMSH2 in breast cancer occurence and progression. The response of the cell to DNA damage and its ability to maintain genomic stability by DNA repair are crucial in preventing cancer initiation and progression. Therefore, polymorphism of DNA repair genes may affect the process of carcinogenesis. The importance of genetic variability of the components of mismatch repair (MMR) genes is well documented in colorectal cancer, but little is known about its role in breast cancer. hMSH2 is one of the crucial proteins of MMR. We performed a case-control study to test the association between two polymorphisms in the hMSH2 gene: an A --> G transition at 127 position producing an Asn --> Ser substitution at codon 127 (the Asn127Ser polymorphism) and a G --> A transition at 1032 position resulting in a Gly --> Asp change at codon 322 (the Gly322Asp polymorphism) and breast cancer risk and cancer progression. Genotypes were determined in DNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes of 150 breast cancer patients and 150 age-matched women (controls) by restriction fragment length polymorphism and allele-specific PCR. We did not observe any correlation between studied polymorphisms and breast cancer progression evaluated by node-metastasis, tumor size and Bloom-Richardson grading. A strong association between breast cancer occurrence and the Gly/Gly phenotype of the Gly322Asp polymorphism (odds ratio 8.39; 95% confidence interval 1.44-48.8) was found. Therefore, MMR may play a role in the breast carcinogenesis and the Gly322Asp polymorphism of the hMSH2 gene may be considered as a potential marker in breast cancer.

16820346	Atorvastatin prevented and reversed dexamethasone-induced hypertension in the rat. To assess the antioxidant effects of atorvastatin (atorva) on dexamethasone (dex)-induced hypertension, 60 male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with atorva 30 mg/kg/day or tap water for 15 days. Dex increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) from 109 +/- 1.8 to 135 +/- 0.6 mmHg and plasma superoxide (5711 +/- 284.9 saline, 7931 +/- 392.8 U/ml dex, P < 0.001). In this prevention study, SBP in the atorva + dex group was increased from 115 +/- 0.4 to 124 +/- 1.5 mmHg, but this was significantly lower than in the dex-only group (P' < 0.05). Atorva reversed dex-induced hypertension (129 +/- 0.6 mmHg, vs. 135 +/- 0.6 mmHg P' < 0.05) and decreased plasma superoxide (7931 +/- 392.8 dex, 1187 +/- 441.2 atorva + dex, P < 0.0001). Plasma nitrate/nitrite (NOx) was decreased in dex-treated rats compared to saline-treated rats (11.2 +/- 1.08 microm, 15.3 +/- 1.17 microm, respectively, P < 0.05). Atorva affected neither plasma NOx nor thymus weight. Thus, atorvastatin prevented and reversed dexamethasone-induced hypertension in the rat.

17003923	Gene polymorphisms implicated in influencing susceptibility to venous and arterial thromboembolism: frequency distribution in a healthy German population. Evolvement and progression of cardiovascular diseases affecting the venous and arterial system are influenced by a multitude of environmental and hereditary factors. Many of these hereditary factors consist of defined gene polymorphisms, such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or insertion-deletion polymorphisms, which directly or indirectly affect the hemostatic system. The frequencies of individual hemostatic gene polymorphisms in different normal populations are well defined. However, descriptions of patterns of genetic variability of a larger extent of different factors of hereditary hypercoagulability in single populations are scarce. The aim of this study was i) to give a detailed description of the frequencies of factors of hereditary thrombophilia and their combinations in a German population (n = 282) and ii) to compare their distributions with those reported for other regions. Variants of coagulation factors [factor V 1691G>A (factor V Leiden), factor V 4070A>G (factor V HR2 haplotype), factor VII Arg353Gln, factor XIII Val34Leu, beta-fibrinogen -455G>A, prothrombin 20210G>A], coagulation inhibitors [tissue factor pathway inhibitor 536C>T, thrombomodulin 127G>A], fibrinolytic factors [angiotensin converting enzyme intron 16 insertion/deletion, factor VII-activating protease 1601G>A (FSAP Marburg I), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1-675 insertion/deletion (5G/4G), tissue plasminogen activator intron h deletion/insertion], and other factors implicated in influencing susceptibility to thromboembolic diseases [apolipoprotein E2/E3/E4, glycoprotein Ia 807C>T, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 677C>T] were included. The distribution of glycoprotein Ia 807C>T deviated significantly from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, and a comparison with previously published data indicates marked region and ethnicity dependent differences in the genotype distributions of some other factors.

24671324	Necrotising fasciitis after bortezomib and dexamethasone-containing regimen in an elderly patient of Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia. Bortezomib and high-dose dexamethasone-containing regimens are considered to be generally tolerable with few severe bacterial infections in patients with B-cell malignancies. However, information is limited concerning the safety of the regimen in elderly patients. We report a case of a 76-year-old man with Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia who suffered necrotising fasciitis without neutropenia after the combination treatment with bortezomib, high-dose dexamethasone and rituximab. Despite immediate intravenous antimicrobial therapy, he succumbed 23 h after the onset. Physicians should recognise the possibility of fatal bacterial infections related to bortezomib plus high-dose dexamethasone in elderly patients, and we believe this case warrants further investigation.

16116131	rTMS of supplementary motor area modulates therapy-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson disease. The neural mechanisms and circuitry involved in levodopa-induced dyskinesia are unclear. Using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the supplementary motor area (SMA) in a group of patients with advanced Parkinson disease, the authors investigated whether modulation of SMA excitability may result in a modification of a dyskinetic state induced by continuous apomorphine infusion. rTMS at 1 Hz was observed to markedly reduce drug-induced dyskinesias, whereas 5-Hz rTMS induced a slight but not significant increase.

19484664	Angiotensin converting enzyme gene polymorphism in Turkish asthmatic patients. Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways. Several candidate genes have been identified with a potential role in the pathogenesis of asthma, including the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) gene. We aimed to investigate the frequency of an ACE gene polymorphism in Turkish asthmatic patients and to determine its impact on clinical parameters and disease severity. Ninety-seven asthmatic patients (M/F 25/72, mean age 39 +/- 13 years) and 96 healthy subjects (M/F 26/70, mean age 38 +/- 12 years) were included. At baseline, all participants completed a questionnaire on demographics, symptoms, triggering factors, severity of asthma, and the presence of atopism. Blood samples were obtained from all patients and genomic DNA was isolated. The frequency of the ACE genotypes (I = insertion and D = deletion) among asthmatics and controls were compared: asthmatics showed a 40.2% prevalence of the DD genotype (n = 39), ID was 45.4% (n = 44), and II was 14.4% (n = 14.4). In the control subjects, the frequency of DD was 18.8% (n = 18), ID was 50% (n = 48) and II was 31.3% (n = 30). The DD ACE genotype was significantly more frequent in asthmatics compared with controls (p < 0.001). Asthmatics with the ID ACE genotype showed a higher frequency of drug allergies, although this was not statistically significant (p = 0.08). Asthmatics with the DD genotype appeared to have a higher incidence of asthmatic episode exacerbations due to viral infections, but again this was not statistically significant (p = 0.08). Patients with mild or moderate-severe asthma had similar frequencies of these mutations. We found a higher frequency of the ACE DD gene mutation in Turkish asthmatic patients compared with non-asthmatics, suggesting that this ACE gene polymorphism may be a risk factor for asthma but does not increase the severity of the disease.

26449539	The impact of PPARa activation on whole genome gene expression in human precision cut liver slices. BACKGROUND: Studies in mice have shown that PPARa is an important regulator of lipid metabolism in liver and key transcription factor involved in the adaptive response to fasting. However, much less is known about the role of PPARa in human liver. METHODS: Here we set out to study the function of PPARa in human liver via analysis of whole genome gene regulation in human liver slices treated with the PPARa agonist Wy14643. RESULTS: Quantitative PCR indicated that PPARa is well expressed in human liver and human liver slices and that the classical PPARa targets PLIN2, VLDLR, ANGPTL4, CPT1A and PDK4 are robustly induced by PPARa activation. Transcriptomics analysis indicated that 617 genes were upregulated and 665 genes were downregulated by PPARa activation (q value < 0.05). Many genes induced by PPARa activation were involved in lipid metabolism (ACSL5, AGPAT9, FADS1, SLC27A4), xenobiotic metabolism (POR, ABCC2, CYP3A5) or the unfolded protein response, whereas most of the downregulated genes were involved in immune-related pathways. Among the most highly repressed genes upon PPARa activation were several chemokines (e.g. CXCL9-11, CCL8, CX3CL1, CXCL6), interferon g-induced genes (e.g. IFITM1, IFIT1, IFIT2, IFIT3) and numerous other immune-related genes (e.g. TLR3, NOS2, and LCN2). Comparative analysis of gene regulation by Wy14643 between human liver slices and primary human hepatocytes showed that down-regulation of gene expression by PPARa is much better captured by liver slices as compared to primary hepatocytes. In particular, PPARa activation markedly suppressed immunity/inflammation-related genes in human liver slices but not in primary hepatocytes. Finally, several putative new target genes of PPARa were identified that were commonly induced by PPARa activation in the two human liver model systems, including TSKU, RHOF, CA12 and VSIG10L. CONCLUSION: Our paper demonstrates the suitability and superiority of human liver slices over primary hepatocytes for studying the functional role of PPARa in human liver. Our data underscore the major role of PPARa in regulation of hepatic lipid and xenobiotic metabolism in human liver and reveal a marked immuno-suppressive/anti-inflammatory effect of PPARa in human liver slices that may be therapeutically relevant for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

28481876	Oncogenic activity of amplified miniature chromosome maintenance 8 in human malignancies. Miniature chromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins play critical roles in DNA replication licensing, initiation and elongation. MCM8, one of the MCM proteins playing a critical role in DNA repairing and recombination, was found to have overexpression and increased DNA copy number in a variety of human malignancies. The gain of MCM8 is associated with aggressive clinical features of several human cancers. Increased expression of MCM8 in prostate cancer is associated with cancer recurrence. Forced expression of MCM8 in RWPE1 cells, the immortalized but non-transformed prostate epithelial cell line, exhibited fast cell growth and transformation, while knock down of MCM8 in PC3, DU145 and LNCaP cells induced cell growth arrest, and decreased tumour volumes and mortality of severe combined immunodeficiency mice xenografted with PC3 and DU145 cells. MCM8 bound cyclin D1 and activated Rb protein phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinase 4 in vitro and in vivo. The cyclin D1/MCM8 interaction is required for Rb phosphorylation and S-phase entry in cancer cells. As a result, our study showed that copy number increase and overexpression of MCM8 may play critical roles in human cancer development.

16731636	Enhanced isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy in transgenic rats with low brain angiotensinogen. We have previously shown that a permanent deficiency in the brain renin-angiotensin system (RAS) may increase the sensitivity of the baroreflex control of heart rate. In this study we aimed at studying the involvement of the brain RAS in the cardiac reactivity to the beta-adrenoceptor (beta-AR) agonist isoproterenol (Iso). Transgenic rats with low brain angiotensinogen (TGR) were used. In isolated hearts, Iso induced a significantly greater increase in left ventricular (LV) pressure and maximal contraction (+dP/dt(max)) in the TGR than in the Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. LV hypertrophy induced by Iso treatment was significantly higher in TGR than in SD rats (in g LV wt/100 g body wt, 0.28 +/- 0.004 vs. 0.24 +/- 0.004, respectively). The greater LV hypertrophy in TGR rats was associated with more pronounced downregulation of beta-AR and upregulation of LV beta-AR kinase-1 mRNA levels compared with those in SD rats. The decrease in the heart rate (HR) induced by the beta-AR antagonist metoprolol in conscious rats was significantly attenuated in TGR compared with SD rats (-9.9 +/- 1.7% vs. -18.1 +/- 1.5%), whereas the effect of parasympathetic blockade by atropine on HR was similar in both strains. These results indicate that TGR are more sensitive to beta-AR agonist-induced cardiac inotropic response and hypertrophy, possibly due to chronically low sympathetic outflow directed to the heart.

16849419	Intronic deletions in the SLC34A3 gene cause hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria. CONTEXT: Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH) is a rare metabolic disorder, characterized by hypophosphatemia and rickets/osteomalacia with increased serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25-(OH)(2)D] resulting in hypercalciuria. OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to determine whether mutations in the SLC34A3 gene, which encodes sodium-phosphate cotransporter type IIc, are responsible for the occurrence of HHRH. DESIGN AND SETTING: Mutation analysis of exons and adjacent introns in the SLC34A3 gene was conducted at an academic research laboratory and medical center. PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS: Members of two unrelated families with HHRH participated in the study. RESULTS: Two affected siblings in one family were homozygous for a 101-bp deletion in intron 9. Haplotype analysis of the SLC34A3 locus in the family showed that the two deletions are on different haplotypes. An unrelated individual with HHRH was a compound heterozygote for an 85-bp deletion in intron 10 and a G-to-A substitution at the last nucleotide in exon 7. The intron 9 deletion (and likely the other two mutations) identified in this study causes aberrant RNA splicing. Sequence analysis of the deleted regions revealed the presence of direct repeats of homologous sequences. CONCLUSION: HHRH is caused by biallelic mutations in the SLC34A3 gene. Haplotype analysis suggests that the two intron 9 deletions arose independently. The identification of three independent deletions in introns 9 and 10 suggests that the SLC34A3 gene may be susceptible to unequal crossing over because of sequence misalignment during meiosis.

19789368	Vitamin D receptor expression is associated with PIK3CA and KRAS mutations in colorectal cancer. Vitamin D is associated with decreased risks of various cancers, including colon cancer. The vitamin D receptor (VDR) is a transcription factor, which plays an important role in cellular differentiation and inhibition of proliferation. A link between VDR and the RAS-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT pathway has been suggested. However, the prognostic role of VDR expression or its relationship with PIK3CA or KRAS mutation remains uncertain. Among 619 colorectal cancers in two prospective cohort studies, 233 (38%) tumors showed VDR overexpression by immunohistochemistry. We analyzed for PIK3CA and KRAS mutations and LINE-1 methylation by Pyrosequencing, microsatellite instability (MSI), and DNA methylation (epigenetic changes) in eight CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP)-specific promoters [CACNA1G, CDKN2A (p16), CRABP1, IGF2, MLH1, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1] by MethyLight (real-time PCR). VDR overexpression was significantly associated with KRAS mutation (odds ratio, 1.55; 95% confidence interval, 1.11-2.16) and PIK3CA mutation (odds ratio, 2.17; 95% confidence interval, 1.36-3.47), both of which persisted in multivariate logistic regression analysis. VDR was not independently associated with body mass index, family history of colorectal cancer, tumor location (colon versus rectum), stage, tumor grade, signet ring cells, CIMP, MSI, LINE-1 hypomethylation, BRAF, p53, p21, beta-catenin, or cyclooxygenase-2. VDR expression was not significantly related with patient survival, prognosis, or clinical outcome. In conclusion, VDR overexpression in colorectal cancer is independently associated with PIK3CA and KRAS mutations. Our data support potential interactions between the VDR, RAS-MAPK and PI3K-AKT pathways, and possible influence by KRAS or PIK3CA mutation on therapy or chemoprevention targeting VDR.

24442316	Cultured mycelium Cordyceps sinensis protects liver sinusoidal endothelial cells in acute liver injured mice. Cultured mycelium Cordyceps sinensis (CMCS) was widely used for a variety of diseases including liver injury, the current study aims to investigate the protective effects of CMCS on liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) in acute injury liver and related action mechanisms. The mice were injected intraperitoneally with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and D-galactosamine (D-GalN). 39 male BABL/c mice were randomly divided into four groups: normal control, model control, CMCS treatment and 1,10-phenanthroline treatment groups. The Serum liver function parameters including alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were assayed with the commercial kit. The inflammation and scaffold structure in liver were stained with hematoxylin and eosin and silver staining respectively. The LSECs and sub-endothelial basement membrane were observed with the scanning and transmission electronic microscope. The protein expressions of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in liver were analyzed with Western blotting. Expression of von Willebrand factor (vWF) was investigated with immunofluorescence staining. The lipid peroxidation indicators including antisuperoxideanion (ASAFR), hydroxyl free radical (.OH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were determined with kits, and matrix metalloproteinase-2 and 9 (MMP-2/9) activities in liver were analyzed with gelatin zymography and in situ fluorescent zymography respectively. The model mice had much higher serum levels of ALT and AST than the normal mice. Compared to that in the normal control, more severe liver inflammation and hepatocyte apoptosis, worse hepatic lipid peroxidation demonstrated by the increased ASAFR, .OH and MDA, but decreased SOD and GST, increased MMP-2/9 activities and VCAM-1, ICAM-1 and vWF expressions, which revealed obvious LSEC injury and scaffold structure broken, were shown in the model control. Compared with the model group, CMCS and 1,10-phenanthroline significantly improved serum ALT/AST, attenuated hepatic inflammation and improved peroxidative injury in liver, decreased MMP-2/9 activities in liver tissue, improved integration of scaffold structure, and decreased protein expression of VCAM-1 and ICAM-1. CMCS could protect LSECs from injury and maintain the microvasculature integration in acute injured liver of mice induced by LPS/D-GalN. Its action mechanism was associated with the down-regulation of MMP-2/9 activities and inhibition of peroxidation in injured liver.

28684635	A Type 2 Diabetes-Associated Functional Regulatory Variant in a Pancreatic Islet Enhancer at the ADCY5 Locus. Molecular mechanisms remain unknown for most type 2 diabetes genome-wide association study identified loci. Variants associated with type 2 diabetes and fasting glucose levels reside in introns of ADCY5, a gene that encodes adenylate cyclase 5. Adenylate cyclase 5 catalyzes the production of cyclic AMP, which is a second messenger molecule involved in cell signaling and pancreatic b-cell insulin secretion. We demonstrated that type 2 diabetes risk alleles are associated with decreased ADCY5 expression in human islets and examined candidate variants for regulatory function. rs11708067 overlaps a predicted enhancer region in pancreatic islets. The type 2 diabetes risk rs11708067-A allele showed fewer H3K27ac ChIP-seq reads in human islets, lower transcriptional activity in reporter assays in rodent b-cells (rat 832/13 and mouse MIN6), and increased nuclear protein binding compared with the rs11708067-G allele. Homozygous deletion of the orthologous enhancer region in 832/13 cells resulted in a 64% reduction in expression level of Adcy5, but not adjacent gene Sec22a, and a 39% reduction in insulin secretion. Together, these data suggest that rs11708067-A risk allele contributes to type 2 diabetes by disrupting an islet enhancer, which results in reduced ADCY5 expression and impaired insulin secretion.

21750150	Homozygously deleted gene DACH1 regulates tumor-initiating activity of glioma cells. Loss or reduction in function of tumor suppressor genes contributes to tumorigenesis. Here, by allelic DNA copy number analysis using single-nucleotide polymorphism genotyping array and mass spectrometry, we report homozygous deletion in glioblastoma multiformes at chromosome 13q21, where DACH1 gene is located. We found decreased cell proliferation of a series of glioma cell lines by forced expression of DACH1. We then generated U87TR-Da glioma cells, where DACH1 expression could be activated by exposure of the cells to doxycycline. Both ex vivo cellular proliferation and in vivo growth of s.c. transplanted tumors in mice are reduced in U87TR-Da cells with DACH1 expression (U87-DACH1-high), compared with DACH1-nonexpressing U87TR-Da cells (U87-DACH1-low). U87-DACH1-low cells form spheroids with CD133 and Nestin expression in serum-free medium but U87-DACH1-high cells do not. Compared with spheroid-forming U87-DACH1-low cells, adherent U87-DACH1-high cells display lower tumorigenicity, indicating DACH1 decreases the number of tumor-initiating cells. Gene expression analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay reveal that fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2/bFGF) is transcriptionally repressed by DACH1, especially in cells cultured in serum-free medium. Exogenous bFGF rescues spheroid-forming activity and tumorigenicity of the U87-DACH1-high cells, suggesting that loss of DACH1 increases the number of tumor-initiating cells through transcriptional activation of bFGF. These results illustrate that DACH1 is a distinctive tumor suppressor, which does not only suppress growth of tumor cells but also regulates bFGF-mediated tumor-initiating activity of glioma cells.

16629641	Definition and management of anemia in patients infected with hepatitis C virus. Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) can progress to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and end-stage liver disease. The current best treatment for HCV infection is combination therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Although this regimen produces sustained virologic responses (SVRs) in approximately 50% of patients, it can be associated with a potentially dose-limiting hemolytic anemia. Hemoglobin concentrations decrease mainly as a result of ribavirin-induced hemolysis, and this anemia can be problematic in patients with HCV infection, especially those who have comorbid renal or cardiovascular disorders. In general, anemia can increase the risk of morbidity and mortality, and may have negative effects on cerebral function and quality of life. Although ribavirin-associated anemia can be reversed by dose reduction or discontinuation, this approach compromises outcomes by significantly decreasing SVR rates. Recombinant human erythropoietin has been used to manage ribavirin-associated anemia but has other potential disadvantages. Viramidine, a liver-targeting prodrug of ribavirin, has the potential to maintain the virologic efficacy of ribavirin while decreasing the risk of hemolytic anemia in patients with chronic hepatitis C.

17166870	Association between an endoglin gene polymorphism and systemic sclerosis-related pulmonary arterial hypertension. Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a connective tissue disorder characterized by early generalized microangiopathy with disturbed angiogenesis. Endoglin gene (ENG) encodes a transmembrane glycoprotein which acts as an accessory receptor for the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily, and is crucial for maintaining vascular integrity. A 6-base insertion in intron 7 (6bINS) of ENG has been reported to be associated with microvascular disturbance. OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to investigate the relationship between 6bINS and the vascular complication pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) in SSc in a French Caucasian population. METHODS: Two hundred eighty SSc cases containing 29/280 having PAH diagnosed by catheterism were compared with 140 patients with osteoarthritis. Genotyping was performed by polymerase-chain-reaction-based fluorescence and direct sequencing of genomic DNA. RESULTS: The polymorphism was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. We observed a significant lower frequency of 6bINS allele in SSc patients with associated PAH compared with controls [10.3 vs 23.9%, P = 0.01; odds ratio (OR) 0.37, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.15-0.89], and a trend in comparison with SSc patients without PAH (10.3 vs 20.3%, P = 0.05; OR: 0.45, 95% CI: 0.19-1.08). Genotypes carrying allele 6bINS were also less frequent in SSc patients with PAH than in controls (20.7 vs 42.9%, P = 0.02). CONCLUSIONS: Thus the frequency of 6bINS differs between SSc patients with or without PAH, suggesting the implication of ENG in this devastating vascular complication of SSc.

17491223	Assessment of a new non-invasive index of cardiac performance for detection of dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia. BACKGROUND: Electrocardiography has a very low sensitivity in detecting dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia. OBJECTIVES: To assess the added diagnostic value of a new cardiac performance index (dP/dtejc) measurement, based on brachial artery flow changes, as compared to standard 12-lead ECG, for detecting dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia, using Tc99m-Sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography as the gold standard of comparison to assess the presence or absence of ischemia. METHODS: The study group comprised 40 patients undergoing Sestamibi-SPECT/dobutamine stress test. Simultaneous measurements of ECG and brachial artery dP/dtejc were performed at each dobutamine level. In 19 of the 40 patients perfusion defects compatible with ischemia were detected on SPECT. The increase in dP/dtejc during infusion of dobutamine in this group was severely impaired as compared to the non-ischemic group. dP/dtejc outcome was combined with the ECG results, giving an ECG-enhanced value, and compared to ECG alone. RESULTS: The sensitivity improved dramatically from 16% to 79%, positive predictive value increased from 60% to 68% and negative predictive value from 54% to 78%, and specificity decreased from 90% to 67%. CONCLUSIONS: If ECG alone is used for specificity, the combination with dP/dtejc improved the sensitivity of the test and could be a cost-savings alternative to cardiac imaging or perfusion studies to detect myocardial ischemia, especially in patients unable to exercise.

18507837	Effects of common germline genetic variation in cell cycle control genes on breast cancer survival: results from a population-based cohort. INTRODUCTION: Somatic alterations have been shown to correlate with breast cancer prognosis and survival, but less is known about the effects of common inherited genetic variation. Of particular interest are genes involved in cell cycle pathways, which regulate cell division. METHODS: We examined associations between common germline genetic variation in 13 genes involved in cell cycle control (CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CDK2 [p33], CDK4, CDK6, CDKN1A [p21, Cip1], CDKN1B [p27, Kip1], CDKN2A [p16], CDKN2B [p15], CDKN2C [p18], and CDKN2D [p19]) and survival among women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer participating in the SEARCH (Studies of Epidemiology and Risk factors in Cancer Heredity) breast cancer study. DNA from up to 4,470 women was genotyped for 85 polymorphisms that tag the known common polymorphisms (minor allele frequency    > 0.05) in the genes. The genotypes of each polymorphism were tested for association with survival using Cox regression analysis. RESULTS: The rare allele of the tagging single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs2479717 is associated with an increased risk of death (hazard ratio = 1.26 per rare allele carried, 95% confidence interval: 1.12 to 1.42; P = 0.0001), which was not attenuated after adjusting for tumour stage, grade, and treatment. This SNP is part of a large linkage disequilibrium block, which contains CCND3, BYSL, TRFP, USP49, C6ofr49, FRS3, and PGC. We evaluated the association of survival and somatic expression of these genes in breast tumours using expression microarray data from seven published datasets. Elevated expression of the C6orf49 transcript was associated with breast cancer survival, adding biological interest to the finding. CONCLUSION: It is possible that CCND3 rs2479717, or another variant it tags, is associated with prognosis after a diagnosis of breast cancer. Further study is required to validate this finding.

26615423	Upregulation of centrosomal protein 55 is associated with unfavorable prognosis and tumor invasion in epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) is a cell cycle regulator implicated in development of certain cancers. However, characteristics of CEP55 expression and its clinical/prognostic significance are unclear in human epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC). Therefore, we investigated the expression and clinicopathological significance of CEP55 in patients with EOC and its role in regulating invasion and metastasis of ovarian cell lines. CEP55 mRNA and protein expression levels were detected by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Potential associations of CEP55 expression scores with clinical parameters and patient survival were evaluated. CEP55 function was investigated further using RNA interference, wound healing assay, transwell assay, immunofluorescence analysis, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. CEP55 was significantly upregulated in ovarian cancer cell lines and lesions compared with normal cells and adjacent noncancerous ovarian tissues. In the 213 EOC samples, CEP55 protein levels were positively correlated with clinical stage (P < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (P < 0.001), intraperitoneal metastasis (P < 0.001), tumor recurrence (P < 0.001), differentiation grade (P < 0.001), residual tumor size (P < 0.001), ascites see tumor cells (P = 0.020), and serum CA153 level (P < 0.001). Moreover, patients with aberrant CEP55 protein expression showed tendencies to receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy (P < 0.001) and cytoreductive surgery (P = 0.020). By contrast, no significant correlation was detected between the protein levels and patient age, histological type, or serum CA125, CA199, CA724, NSE, CEA, and b-HCG levels. Patients with high CEP55 protein expression had shorter overall survival and disease-free survival compared with those with low CEP55 expression. Multivariate analysis implicated CEP55 as an independent prognostic indicator for EOC patients. Additionally, downregulation of CEP55 in ovarian cancer cells remarkably inhibited cellular motility and invasion. Aberrant CEP55 expression may predict unfavorable clinical outcomes in EOC patients and play an important role in regulating invasion in ovarian cancer cells. Thus, CEP55 may serve as a prognostic marker and therapeutic target for EOC.

27384305	Male 11b-HSD1 Knockout Mice Fed Trans-Fats and Fructose Are Not Protected From Metabolic Syndrome or Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) defines a spectrum of conditions from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis and is regarded as the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome. Glucocorticoids can promote steatosis by stimulating lipolysis within adipose tissue, free fatty acid delivery to liver and hepatic de novo lipogenesis. Glucocorticoids can be reactivated in liver through 11b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11b-HSD1) enzyme activity. Inhibition of 11b-HSD1 has been suggested as a potential treatment for NAFLD. To test this, male mice with global (11b-HSD1 knockout [KO]) and liver-specific (LKO) 11b-HSD1 loss of function were fed the American Lifestyle Induced Obesity Syndrome (ALIOS) diet, known to recapitulate the spectrum of NAFLD, and metabolic and liver phenotypes assessed. Body weight, muscle and adipose tissue masses, and parameters of glucose homeostasis showed that 11b-HSD1KO and LKO mice were not protected from systemic metabolic disease. Evaluation of hepatic histology, triglyceride content, and blinded NAFLD activity score assessment indicated that levels of steatosis were similar between 11b-HSD1KO, LKO, and control mice. Unexpectedly, histological analysis revealed significantly increased levels of immune foci present in livers of 11b-HSD1KO but not LKO or control mice, suggestive of a transition to NASH. This was endorsed by elevated hepatic expression of key immune cell and inflammatory markers. These data indicate that 11b-HSD1-deficient mice are not protected from metabolic disease or hepatosteatosis in the face of a NAFLD-inducing diet. However, global deficiency of 11b-HSD1 did increase markers of hepatic inflammation and suggests a critical role for 11b-HSD1 in restraining the transition to NASH.

15000256	Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of the FMR1 gene in autistic and mentally retarded children in Japan. Fragile X syndrome is one of the most common causes of mental retardation in males, and patients with fragile X syndrome occasionally develop autism. It is usually caused by an expansion of the trinucleotide repeat in the 5'-untranslated region of the FMR1 gene, but in a small number of patients deletions and point mutations have been identified. We screened all 17 exons of the FMR1 gene for mutations in 90 autistic or mentally retarded children using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. No mutations were found in 76 male patients. However, one female patient was heterozygous for a normal allele and a mutant allele with an A to C substitution at nucleotide 879 in exon 9. This mutation was not found in 50 controls. Reverse transcription-PCR revealed that a large proportion of the mutant transcripts were spliced aberrantly, causing premature termination of the protein synthesis. Although uncommon, point mutations in the FMR1 gene may be a cause of autism and mental retardation in Japanese patients.

15811908	Pheochromocytoma unmasked by amisulpride and tiapride. OBJECTIVE: To describe the unmasking of pheochromocytoma in a patient treated with amisulpride and tiapride. CASE SUMMARY: A 42-year-old white man developed acute hypertension with severe headache and vomiting 2 hours after the first doses of amisulpride 100 mg and tiapride 100 mg. Both drugs were immediately discontinued, and the patient recovered after subsequent nicardipine and verapamil treatment. Abdominal ultrasound showed an adrenal mass, and postoperative histologic examination confirmed the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. DISCUSSION: Drug-induced symptoms of pheochromocytoma are often associated with the use of substituted benzamide drugs, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. In our case, use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a possible relationship between the hypertensive crisis and amisulpride and tiapride therapy. CONCLUSIONS: As of March 24, 2005, this is the first reported case of amisulpride- and tiapride-induced hypertensive crisis in a patient with pheochromocytoma. Physicians and other healthcare professionals should be aware of this potential adverse effect of tiapride and amisulpride.

19957053	Phenylephrine but not ephedrine reduces frontal lobe oxygenation following anesthesia-induced hypotension. BACKGROUND: Vasopressor agents are used to correct anesthesia-induced hypotension. We describe the effect of phenylephrine and ephedrine on frontal lobe oxygenation (S(c)O(2)) following anesthesia-induced hypotension. METHODS: Following induction of anesthesia by fentanyl (0.15 mg kg(-1)) and propofol (2.0 mg kg(-1)), 13 patients received phenylephrine (0.1 mg iv) and 12 patients received ephedrine (10 mg iv) to restore mean arterial pressure (MAP). Heart rate (HR), MAP, stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), and frontal lobe oxygenation (S(c)O(2)) were registered. RESULTS: Induction of anesthesia was followed by a decrease in MAP, HR, SV, and CO concomitant with an elevation in S(c)O(2). After administration of phenylephrine, MAP increased (51 +/- 12 to 81 +/- 13 mmHg; P < 0.001; mean +/- SD). However, a 14% (from 70 +/- 8% to 60 +/- 7%) reduction in S(c)O(2) (P < 0.05) followed with no change in CO (3.7 +/- 1.1 to 3.4 +/- 0.9 l min(-1)). The administration of ephedrine led to a similar increase in MAP (53 +/- 9 to 79 +/- 8 mmHg; P < 0.001), restored CO (3.2 +/- 1.2 to 5.0 +/- 1.3 l min(-1)), and preserved S(c)O(2). CONCLUSIONS: The utilization of phenylephrine to correct hypotension induced by anesthesia has a negative impact on S(c)O(2) while ephedrine maintains frontal lobe oxygenation potentially related to an increase in CO.

17935240	Somatic and gonadal mosaicism in X-linked retinitis pigmentosa. The g.ORF15 + 652-653delAG mutation in the RPGR gene is the most frequent mutation in X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP). The objective of this study was to investigate the possibility of mosaicism in an XLRP family. Eight subjects in the RP family were recruited. Blood samples were collected for DNA extraction. Haplotype analysis and mutational screening on the RPGR gene were performed. Additionally, samples of hair follicles and buccal cells from the mother of the proband were acquired for DNA extraction and molecular analysis. Phenotype was characterized with routine ophthalmic examination, Goldmann perimetry, electroretinography, and color fundus photography. A g.ORF15 + 652-653delAG mutation was identified in second- and third-generation patients/carriers. A first-generation female, who was considered to be an obligate carrier, demonstrated a normal phenotype as well as a normal genotype in lymphocytic DNA, indicating the gonadal mosaicism; however, a heterozygous AG-deletion at nucleotide 652 and 653 was identified in the genomic DNA of hair follicles, hair shaft, and buccal cells, indicating that the mutation is somatic. In conclusion, we reported on a family in which an asymptomatic woman with somatic-gonadal mosaicism for a RPGR gene mutation transmitted the mutation to an asymptomatic daughter and to a son with XLRP. Gonadal mosaicism may be responsible for a proportion of multiplex or simplex RP families, in which more than 50% of all cases of RP are found. (c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

18441470	Complete atrioventricular block secondary to lithium therapy. Sinus node dysfunction has been reported most frequently among the adverse cardiovascular effects of lithium. In the present case, complete atrioventricular (AV) block with syncopal attacks developed secondary to lithium therapy, necessitating permanent pacemaker implantation. Serum lithium levels remained under or within the therapeutic range during the syncopal attacks. Lithium should be used with extreme caution, especially in patients with mild disturbance of AV conduction.

15036754	Organophosphate-induced convulsions and prevention of neuropathological damages. Such organophosphorus (OP) compounds as diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), sarin and soman are potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterases (AChEs) and butyrylcholinesterases (BChEs). The acute toxicity of OPs is the result of their irreversible binding with AChEs in the central nervous system (CNS), which elevates acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The protective action of subcutaneously (SC) administered antidotes or their combinations in DFP (2.0 mg/kg BW) intoxication was studied in 9-10-weeks-old Han-Wistar male rats. The rats received AChE reactivator pralidoxime-2-chloride (2PAM) (30.0 mg/kg BW), anticonvulsant diazepam (2.0 mg/kg BW), A(1)-adenosine receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyl adenosine (CPA) (2.0 mg/kg BW), NMDA-receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (+-MK801 hydrogen maleate) (2.0 mg/kg BW) or their combinations with cholinolytic drug atropine sulfate (50.0 mg/kg BW) immediately or 30 min after the single SC injection of DFP. The control rats received atropine sulfate, but also saline and olive oil instead of other antidotes and DFP, respectively. All rats were terminated either 24 h or 3 weeks after the DFP injection. The rats treated with DFP-atropine showed severe typical OP-induced toxicity signs. When CPA, diazepam or 2PAM was given immediately after DFP-atropine, these treatments prevented, delayed or shortened the occurrence of serious signs of poisoning. Atropine-MK801 did not offer any additional protection against DFP toxicity. In conclusion, CPA, diazepam and 2PAM in combination with atropine prevented the occurrence of serious signs of poisoning and thus reduced the toxicity of DFP in rat.

15673851	The activation of spinal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may contribute to degeneration of spinal motor neurons induced by neuraxial morphine after a noninjurious interval of spinal cord ischemia. We investigated the relationship between the degeneration of spinal motor neurons and activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors after neuraxial morphine following a noninjurious interval of aortic occlusion in rats. Spinal cord ischemia was induced by aortic occlusion for 6 min with a balloon catheter. In a microdialysis study, 10 muL of saline (group C; n = 8) or 30 mug of morphine (group M; n = 8) was injected intrathecally (IT) 0.5 h after reflow, and 30 mug of morphine (group SM; n = 8) or 10 muL of saline (group SC; n = 8) was injected IT 0.5 h after sham operation. Microdialysis samples were collected preischemia, before IT injection, and at 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 h of reperfusion (after IT injection). Second, we investigated the effect of IT MK-801 (30 mug) on the histopathologic changes in the spinal cord after morphine-induced spastic paraparesis. After IT morphine, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamate concentration was increased in group M relative to both baseline and group C (P < 0.05). This increase persisted for 8 hrs. IT MK-801 significantly reduced the number of dark-stained alpha-motoneurons after morphine-induced spastic paraparesis compared with the saline group. These data indicate that IT morphine induces spastic paraparesis with a concomitant increase in CSF glutamate, which is involved in NMDA receptor activation. We suggest that opioids may be neurotoxic in the setting of spinal cord ischemia via NMDA receptor activation.

15987266	Growth-associated protein 43 expression in hippocampal molecular layer of chronic epileptic rats treated with cycloheximide. PURPOSE: GAP43 has been thought to be linked with mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) in various experimental models of epilepsy. To investigate how GAP43 expression (GAP43-ir) correlates with MFS, we assessed the intensity (densitometry) and extension (width) of GAP43-ir in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (IML) of rats subject to status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine (Pilo), previously injected or not with cycloheximide (CHX), which has been shown to inhibit MFS. METHODS: CHX was injected before the Pilo injection in adult Wistar rats. The Pilo group was injected with the same drugs, except for CHX. Animals were killed between 30 and 60 days later, and brain sections were processed for GAP43 immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Densitometry showed no significant difference regarding GAP43-ir in the IML between Pilo, CHX+Pilo, and control groups. However, the results of the width of the GAP43-ir band in the IML showed that CHX+Pilo and control animals had a significantly larger band (p = 0.03) as compared with that in the Pilo group. CONCLUSIONS: Our current finding that animals in the CHX+Pilo group have a GAP43-ir band in the IML, similar to that of controls, reinforces prior data on the blockade of MFS in these animals. The change in GAP43-ir present in Pilo-treated animals was a thinning of the band to a very narrow layer just above the granule cell layer that is likely to be associated with the loss of hilar cell projections that express GAP-43.

16428827	Daidzein activates choline acetyltransferase from MC-IXC cells and improves drug-induced amnesia. The choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activator, which enhances cholinergic transmission via an augmentation of the enzymatic production of acetylcholine (ACh), is an important factor in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Methanolic extracts from Pueraria thunbergiana exhibited an activation effect (46%) on ChAT in vitro. Via the sequential isolation of Pueraria thunbergiana, the active component was ultimately identified as daidzein (4',7-dihydroxy-isoflavone). In order to investigate the effects of daidzein from Pueraria thunbergiana on scopolamine-induced impairments of learning and memory, we conducted a series of in vivo tests. Administration of daidzein (4.5 mg/kg body weight) to mice was shown significantly to reverse scopolamine-induced amnesia, according to the results of a Y-maze test. Injections of scopolamine into mice resulted in impaired performance on Y-maze tests (a 37% decreases in alternation behavior). By way of contrast, mice treated with daidzein prior to the scopolamine injections were noticeably protected from this performance impairment (an approximately 12%-21% decrease in alternation behavior). These results indicate that daidzein might play a role in acetylcholine biosynthesis as a ChAT activator, and that it also ameliorates scopolamine-induced amnesia.

16844102	Effect of alpha-tocopherol and deferoxamine on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Methamphetamine (MA)-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity is believed to be associated with the increased formation of free radicals. This study examined the effect of alpha-tocopherol (alpha-TC), a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, and deferoxamine (DFO), an iron chelator, on the MA-induced neurotoxicity. Male rats were treated with MA (10 mg/kg, every 2 h for four injections). The rat received either alpha-TC (20 mg/kg) intraperitoneally for 3 days and 30 min prior to MA administration or DFO (50 mg/kg) subcutaneously 30 min before MA administration. The concentrations of dopamine (DA), serotonin and their metabolites decreased significantly after MA administration, which was inhibited by the alpha-TC and DFO pretreatment. alpha-TC and DFO attenuated the MA-induced hyperthermia as well as the alterations in the locomotor activity. The level of lipid peroxidation was higher and the reduced glutathione concentration was lower in the MA-treated rats. These changes were significantly attenuated by alpha-TC and DFO. This suggests that alpha-TC and DFO ameliorate the MA-induced neuronal damage by decreasing the level of oxidative stress.

17562951	Cardiac Angiography in Renally Impaired Patients (CARE) study: a randomized double-blind trial of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease. BACKGROUND: No direct comparisons exist of the renal tolerability of the low-osmolality contrast medium iopamidol with that of the iso-osmolality contrast medium iodixanol in high-risk patients. METHODS AND RESULTS: The present study is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind comparison of iopamidol and iodixanol in patients with chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate, 20 to 59 mL/min) who underwent cardiac angiography or percutaneous coronary interventions. Serum creatinine (SCr) levels and estimated glomerular filtration rate were assessed at baseline and 2 to 5 days after receiving medications. The primary outcome was a postdose SCr increase > or = 0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) over baseline. Secondary outcomes were a postdose SCr increase > or = 25%, a postdose estimated glomerular filtration rate decrease of > or = 25%, and the mean peak change in SCr. In 414 patients, contrast volume, presence of diabetes mellitus, use of N-acetylcysteine, mean baseline SCr, and estimated glomerular filtration rate were comparable in the 2 groups. SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL occurred in 4.4% (9 of 204 patients) after iopamidol and 6.7% (14 of 210 patients) after iodixanol (P=0.39), whereas rates of SCr increases > or = 25% were 9.8% and 12.4%, respectively (P=0.44). In patients with diabetes, SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL were 5.1% (4 of 78 patients) with iopamidol and 13.0% (12 of 92 patients) with iodixanol (P=0.11), whereas SCr increases > or = 25% were 10.3% and 15.2%, respectively (P=0.37). Mean post-SCr increases were significantly less with iopamidol (all patients: 0.07 versus 0.12 mg/dL, 6.2 versus 10.6 micromol/L, P=0.03; patients with diabetes: 0.07 versus 0.16 mg/dL, 6.2 versus 14.1 micromol/L, P=0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The rate of contrast-induced nephropathy, defined by multiple end points, is not statistically different after the intraarterial administration of iopamidol or iodixanol to high-risk patients, with or without diabetes mellitus. Any true difference between the agents is small and not likely to be clinically significant.

17879945	Estrogen prevents cholesteryl ester accumulation in macrophages induced by the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir. Individuals with HIV can now live long lives with drug therapy that often includes protease inhibitors such as ritonavir. Many patients, however, develop negative long-term side effects such as premature atherosclerosis. We have previously demonstrated that ritonavir treatment increases atherosclerotic lesion formation in male mice to a greater extent than in female mice. Furthermore, peripheral blood monocytes isolated from ritonavir-treated females had less cholesteryl ester accumulation. In the present study, we have investigated the molecular mechanisms by which female hormones influence cholesterol metabolism in macrophages in response to the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir. We have utilized the human monocyte cell line, THP-1 as a model to address this question. Briefly, cells were differentiated for 72 h with 100 nM PMA to obtain a macrophage-like phenotype in the presence or absence of 1 nM 17beta-estradiol (E2), 100 nM progesterone or vehicle (0.01% ethanol). Cells were then treated with 30 ng/ml ritonavir or vehicle in the presence of aggregated LDL for 24 h. Cell extracts were harvested, and lipid or total RNA was isolated. E2 decreased the accumulation of cholesteryl esters in macrophages following ritonavir treatment. Ritonavir increased the expression of the scavenger receptor, CD36 mRNA, responsible for the uptake of LDL. Additionally, ritonavir treatment selectively increased the relative levels of PPARgamma mRNA, a transcription factor responsible for the regulation of CD36 mRNA expression. Treatment with E2, however, failed to prevent these increases at the mRNA level. E2 did, however, significantly suppress CD36 protein levels as measured by fluorescent immunocytochemistry. This data suggests that E2 modifies the expression of CD36 at the level of protein expression in monocyte-derived macrophages resulting in reduced cholesteryl ester accumulation following ritonavir treatment.

18399341	Clinical comparison of cardiorespiratory effects during unilateral and conventional spinal anaesthesia. BACKGROUND: Spinal anaesthesia is widely employed in clinical practice but has the main drawback of post-spinal block hypotension. Efforts must therefore continue to be made to obviate this setback OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cardiovascular and respiratory changes during unilateral and conventional spinal anaesthesia. METHODS: With ethical approval, we studied 74 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA), physical status class 1 and 2 patients scheduled for elective unilateral lower limb surgery. Patients were randomly allocated into one of two groups: lateral and conventional spinal anaesthesia groups. In the lateral position with operative side down, patients recived 10 mg (2mls) of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine through a 25-gauge spinal needle. Patients in the unilateral group were maintained in the lateral position for 15 minutes following spinal injection while those in the conventional group were turned supine immediately after injection. Blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation were monitored over 1 hour. RESULTS: Three patients (8.1%) in the unilateral group and 5 (13.5%) in the conventional group developed hypotension, P= 0.71. Four (10.8%) patients in the conventional group and 1 (2.7%) in the unilateral group, P= 0.17 required epinephrine infusion to treat hypotension. Patients in the conventional group had statistically significant greater fall in the systolic blood pressures at 15, 30 and 45 minutes when compared to the baseline (P= 0.003, 0.001 and 0.004). The mean respiratory rate and oxygen saturations in the two groups were similar. CONCLUSION: Compared to conventional spinal anaesthesia, unilateral spinal anaesthesia was associated with fewer cardiovascular perturbations. Also, the type of spinal block instituted affected neither the respiratory rate nor the arterial oxygen saturation.

18439803	Acute effects of N-(2-propylpentanoyl)urea on hippocampal amino acid neurotransmitters in pilocarpine-induced seizure in rats. The present study aimed to investigate the anticonvulsant activity as well as the effects on the level of hippocampal amino acid neurotransmitters (glutamate, aspartate, glycine and GABA) of N-(2-propylpentanoyl)urea (VPU) in comparison to its parent compound, valproic acid (VPA). VPU was more potent than VPA, exhibiting the median effective dose (ED(50)) of 49 mg/kg in protecting rats against pilocarpine-induced seizure whereas the corresponding value for VPA was 322 mg/kg. In vivo microdialysis demonstrated that an intraperitoneal administration of pilocarpine induced a pronounced increment of hippocampal glutamate and aspartate whereas no significant change was observed on the level of glycine and GABA. Pretreatment with either VPU (50 and 100 mg/kg) or VPA (300 and 600 mg/kg) completely abolished pilocarpine-evoked increases in extracellular glutamate and aspartate. In addition, a statistically significant reduction was also observed on the level of GABA and glycine but less than a drastic reduction of glutamate and aspartate level. Based on the finding that VPU and VPA could protect the animals against pilocarpine-induced seizure it is suggested that the reduction of inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitters was comparatively minor and offset by a pronounced reduction of glutamate and aspartate. Therefore, like VPA, the finding that VPU could drastically reduce pilocarpine-induced increases in glutamate and aspartate should account, at least partly, for its anticonvulsant activity observed in pilocarpine-induced seizure in experimental animals. Some other mechanism than those being reported herein should be further investigated.

19531695	Delirium in a patient with toxic flecainide plasma concentrations: the role of a pharmacokinetic drug interaction with paroxetine. OBJECTIVE: To describe a case of flecainide-induced delirium associated with a pharmacokinetic drug interaction with paroxetine. CASE SUMMARY: A 69-year-old white female presented to the emergency department with a history of confusion and paranoia over the past several days. On admission the patient was taking carvedilol 12 mg twice daily, warfarin 2 mg/day, folic acid 1 mg/day, levothyroxine 100 microg/day, pantoprazole 40 mg/day, paroxetine 40 mg/day, and flecainide 100 mg twice daily. Flecainide had been started 2 weeks prior for atrial fibrillation. Laboratory test findings on admission were notable only for a flecainide plasma concentration of 1360 microg/L (reference range 200-1000). A metabolic drug interaction between flecainide and paroxetine, which the patient had been taking for more than 5 years, was considered. Paroxetine was discontinued and the dose of flecainide was reduced to 50 mg twice daily. Her delirium resolved 3 days later. DISCUSSION: Flecainide and pharmacologically similar agents that interact with sodium channels may cause delirium in susceptible patients. A MEDLINE search (1966-January 2009) revealed one in vivo pharmacokinetic study on the interaction between flecainide, a CYP2D6 substrate, and paroxetine, a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as well as 3 case reports of flecainide-induced delirium. According to the Naranjo probability scale, flecainide was the probable cause of the patient's delirium; the Horn Drug Interaction Probability Scale indicates a possible pharmacokinetic drug interaction between flecainide and paroxetine. CONCLUSIONS: Supratherapeutic flecainide plasma concentrations may cause delirium. Because toxicity may occur when flecainide is prescribed with paroxetine and other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors, flecainide plasma concentrations should be monitored closely with commencement of CYP2D6 inhibitors.

24114426	Depression, impulsiveness, sleep, and memory in past and present polydrug users of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy). RATIONALE: Ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, MDMA) is a worldwide recreational drug of abuse. Unfortunately, the results from human research investigating its psychological effects have been inconsistent. OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to be the largest to date in sample size and 5HT-related behaviors; the first to compare present ecstasy users with past users after an abstinence of 4 or more years, and the first to include robust controls for other recreational substances. METHODS: A sample of 997 participants (52 % male) was recruited to four control groups (non-drug (ND), alcohol/nicotine (AN), cannabis/alcohol/nicotine (CAN), non-ecstasy polydrug (PD)), and two ecstasy polydrug groups (present (MDMA) and past users (EX-MDMA). Participants completed a drug history questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory, Barratt Impulsiveness Scale, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, and Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised which, in total, provided 13 psychometric measures. RESULTS: While the CAN and PD groups tended to record greater deficits than the non-drug controls, the MDMA and EX-MDMA groups recorded greater deficits than all the control groups on ten of the 13 psychometric measures. Strikingly, despite prolonged abstinence (mean, 4.98; range, 4-9 years), past ecstasy users showed few signs of recovery. Compared with present ecstasy users, the past users showed no change for ten measures, increased impairment for two measures, and improvement on just one measure. CONCLUSIONS: Given this record of impaired memory and clinically significant levels of depression, impulsiveness, and sleep disturbance, the prognosis for the current generation of ecstasy users is a major cause for concern.

24717468	A comparison of severe hemodynamic disturbances between dexmedetomidine and propofol for sedation in neurocritical care patients. OBJECTIVE: Dexmedetomidine and propofol are commonly used sedatives in neurocritical care as they allow for frequent neurologic examinations. However, both agents are associated with significant hemodynamic side effects. The primary objective of this study is to compare the prevalence of severe hemodynamic effects in neurocritical care patients receiving dexmedetomidine and propofol. DESIGN: Multicenter, retrospective, propensity-matched cohort study. SETTING: Neurocritical care units at two academic medical centers with dedicated neurocritical care teams and board-certified neurointensivists. PATIENTS: Neurocritical care patients admitted between July 2009 and September 2012 were evaluated and then matched 1:1 based on propensity scoring of baseline characteristics. INTERVENTIONS: Continuous sedation with dexmedetomidine or propofol. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: A total of 342 patients (105 dexmedetomidine and 237 propofol) were included in the analysis, with 190 matched (95 in each group) by propensity score. The primary outcome of this study was a composite of severe hypotension (mean arterial pressure < 60 mm Hg) and bradycardia (heart rate < 50 beats/min) during sedative infusion. No difference in the primary composite outcome in both the unmatched (30% vs 30%, p = 0.94) or matched cohorts (28% vs 34%, p = 0.35) could be found. When analyzed separately, no differences could be found in the prevalence of severe hypotension or bradycardia in either the unmatched or matched cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Severe hypotension and bradycardia occur at similar prevalence in neurocritical care patients who receive dexmedetomidine or propofol. Providers should similarly consider the likelihood of hypotension or bradycardia before starting either sedative.

24739405	Effects of dehydroepiandrosterone in amphetamine-induced schizophrenia models in mice. OBJECTIVE: To examine the effects of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) on animal models of schizophrenia. METHODS: Seventy Swiss albino female mice (25-35 g) were divided into 4 groups: amphetamine-free (control), amphetamine, 50, and 100 mg/kg DHEA. The DHEA was administered intraperitoneally (ip) for 5 days. Amphetamine (3 mg/kg ip) induced hyper locomotion, apomorphine (1.5 mg/kg subcutaneously [sc]) induced climbing, and haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg sc) induced catalepsy tests were used as animal models of schizophrenia. The study was conducted at the Animal Experiment Laboratories, Department of Pharmacology, Medical School, Eskisehir Osmangazi University, Eskisehir, Turkey between March and May 2012. Statistical analysis was carried out using Kruskal-Wallis test for hyper locomotion, and one-way ANOVA for climbing and catalepsy tests. RESULTS: In the amphetamine-induced locomotion test, there were significant increases in all movements compared with the amphetamine-free group. Both DHEA 50 mg/kg (p<0.05), and 100 mg/kg (p<0.01) significantly decreased all movements compared with the amphetamine-induced locomotion group. There was a significant difference between groups in the haloperidol-induced catalepsy test (p<0.05). There was no significant difference between groups in terms of total climbing time in the apomorphine-induced climbing test (p>0.05). CONCLUSION: We observed that DHEA reduced locomotor activity and increased catalepsy at both doses, while it had no effect on climbing behavior. We suggest that DHEA displays typical neuroleptic-like effects, and may be used in the treatment of schizophrenia.

24840785	Aconitine-induced Ca2+ overload causes arrhythmia and triggers apoptosis through p38 MAPK signaling pathway in rats. Aconitine is a major bioactive diterpenoid alkaloid with high content derived from herbal aconitum plants. Emerging evidence indicates that voltage-dependent Na(+) channels have pivotal roles in the cardiotoxicity of aconitine. However, no reports are available on the role of Ca(2+) in aconitine poisoning. In this study, we explored the importance of pathological Ca(2+) signaling in aconitine poisoning in vitro and in vivo. We found that Ca(2+) overload lead to accelerated beating rhythm in adult rat ventricular myocytes and caused arrhythmia in conscious freely moving rats. To investigate effects of aconitine on myocardial injury, we performed cytotoxicity assay in neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVMs), as well as measured lactate dehydrogenase level in the culture medium of NRVMs and activities of serum cardiac enzymes in rats. The results showed that aconitine resulted in myocardial injury and reduced NRVMs viability dose-dependently. To confirm the pro-apoptotic effects, we performed flow cytometric detection, cardiac histology, transmission electron microscopy and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling assay. The results showed that aconitine stimulated apoptosis time-dependently. The expression analysis of Ca(2+) handling proteins demonstrated that aconitine promoted Ca(2+) overload through the expression regulation of Ca(2+) handling proteins. The expression analysis of apoptosis-related proteins revealed that pro-apoptotic protein expression was upregulated, and anti-apoptotic protein BCL-2 expression was downregulated. Furthermore, increased phosphorylation of MAPK family members, especially the P-P38/P38 ratio was found in cardiac tissues. Hence, our results suggest that aconitine significantly aggravates Ca(2+) overload and causes arrhythmia and finally promotes apoptotic development via phosphorylation of P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase.

14510914	Congenital hypothyroidism due to a new deletion in the sodium/iodide symporter protein. OBJECTIVE: Iodide transport defect (ITD) is a rare disorder characterised by an inability of the thyroid to maintain an iodide gradient across the basolateral membrane of thyroid follicular cells, that often results in congenital hypothyroidism. When present the defect is also found in the salivary glands and gastric mucosa and it has been shown to arise from abnormalities of the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS). PATIENT: We describe a woman with hypothyroidism identified at the 3rd month of life. The diagnosis of ITD was suspected because of nodular goitre, and little if any iodide uptake by the thyroid and salivary glands. Treatment with iodide partially corrected the hypothyroidism; however, long-term substitution therapy with L-thyroxine was started. MEASUREMENTS: Thyroid radioiodide uptake was only 1.4% and 0.3% at 1 and 24 h after the administration of recombinant human TSH. The saliva to plasma I- ratio was 1.1 indicating that the inability of the thyroid gland to concentrate I- was also present in the salivary glands. RESULTS: Analysis of the patient's NIS gene revealed a 15 nucleotide (nt) deletion of the coding sequence (nt 1314 through nt 1328) and the insertion of 15 nt duplicating the first 15 nt of the adjacent intron. The patient was homozygous for this insertion/deletion, while both consanguineous parents were heterozygous. This deletion predicts the production of a protein lacking the five terminal amino acids of exon XI (439-443) which are located in the 6th intracellular loop. COS-7 cells transfected with a vector expressing the mutant del-(439-443) NIS failed to concentrate iodide, suggesting that the mutation was the direct cause of the ITD in this patient. CONCLUSION: In conclusion we describe the first Italian case of congenital hypothyroidism due to a new deletion in the NIS gene.

15096016	Pallidal stimulation: an alternative to pallidotomy? A resurgence of interest in the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) came with the rediscovery of posteroventral pallidotomy by Laitinen in 1985. Laitinen's procedure improved most symptoms in drug-resistant PD, which engendered wide interest in the neurosurgical community. Another lesioning procedure, ventrolateral thalamotomy, has become a powerful alternative to stimulate the nucleus ventralis intermedius, producing high long-term success rates and low morbidity rates. Pallidal stimulation has not met with the same success. According to the literature pallidotomy improves the "on" symptoms of PD, such as dyskinesias, as well as the "off" symptoms, such as rigidity, bradykinesia, and on-off fluctuations. Pallidal stimulation improves bradykinesia and rigidity to a minor extent; however, its strength seems to be in improving levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Stimulation often produces an improvement in the hyper- or dyskinetic upper limbs, but increases the "freezing" phenomenon in the lower limbs at the same time. Considering the small increase in the patient's independence, the high costs of bilateral implants, and the difficulty most patients experience in handling the devices, the question arises as to whether bilateral pallidal stimulation is a real alternative to pallidotomy.

16152606	Carrier frequency of mutation 657del5 in the NBS1 gene in a population of Polish pediatric patients with sporadic lymphoid malignancies. Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS) is a human autosomal recessive disease characterized by genomic instability and enhanced cancer predisposition, in particular to lymphoma and leukemia. Recently, significantly higher frequencies of heterozygous carriers of the Slavic founder NBS1 mutation, 657del5, were found in Russian children with sporadic lymphoid malignancies, and in Polish adults with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). In addition, the substitution 643C>T (R215W) has also been found in excess among children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In an attempt to asses the contribution of both mutations to the development of sporadic lymphoid malignancies, we analyzed DNA samples from a large group of Polish pediatric patients. The NBS1 mutation 657del5 on one allele was found in 3 of 270 patients with ALL and 2 of 212 children and adolescents with NHL; no carrier was found among 63 patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). No carriers of the variant R215W were detected in any studied group. The relative frequency of the 657del5 mutation was calculated from a total of 6,984 controls matched by place of patient residence, of whom 42 were found to be carriers (frequency = 0.006). In the analyzed population with malignancies, an increased odds ratio for the occurrence of mutation 657del5 was found in comparison with the control Polish population (OR range 1.48-1.85, 95% confidence interval 1.18-2.65). This finding indicates that the frequency of the mutation carriers was indeed increased in patients with ALL and NHL (p < 0.05). Nonetheless, NBS1 gene heterozygosity is not a major risk factor for lymphoid malignancies in childhood and adolescence.

16277682	Segregation of a M404V mutation of the p62/sequestosome 1 (p62/SQSTM1) gene with polyostotic Paget's disease of bone in an Italian family. Mutations of the p62/Sequestosome 1 gene (p62/SQSTM1) account for both sporadic and familial forms of Paget's disease of bone (PDB). We originally described a methionine-->valine substitution at codon 404 (M404V) of exon 8, in the ubiquitin protein-binding domain of p62/SQSTM1 gene in an Italian PDB patient. The collection of data from the patient's pedigree provided evidence for a familial form of PDB. Extension of the genetic analysis to other relatives in this family demonstrated segregation of the M404V mutation with the polyostotic PDB phenotype and provided the identification of six asymptomatic gene carriers. DNA for mutational analysis of the exon 8 coding sequence was obtained from 22 subjects, 4 PDB patients and 18 clinically unaffected members. Of the five clinically ascertained affected members of the family, four possessed the M404V mutation and exhibited the polyostotic form of PDB, except one patient with a single X-ray-assessed skeletal localization and one with a polyostotic disease who had died several years before the DNA analysis. By both reconstitution and mutational analysis of the pedigree, six unaffected subjects were shown to bear the M404V mutation, representing potential asymptomatic gene carriers whose circulating levels of alkaline phosphatase were recently assessed as still within the normal range. Taken together, these results support a genotype-phenotype correlation between the M404V mutation in the p62/SQSTM1 gene and a polyostotic form of PDB in this family. The high penetrance of the PDB trait in this family together with the study of the asymptomatic gene carriers will allow us to confirm the proposed genotype-phenotype correlation and to evaluate the potential use of mutational analysis of the p62/SQSTM1 gene in the early detection of relatives at risk for PDB.

1671881	Two distinct mutations at a single BamHI site in phenylketonuria. Classical phenylketonuria is an autosomal recessive disease caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH). The abolition of an invariant BamHI site located in the coding sequence of the PAH gene (exon 7) led to the recognition of two new point mutations at codon 272 and 273 (272gly----stop and 273ser----phe, respectively). Both mutations were detected in north eastern France or Belgium and occurred on the background of RFLP haplotype 7 alleles. The present study supports the view that the clinical heterogeneity in PKU is accounted for by the large variety of mutant genotypes associated with PAH deficiencies.. 

16867246	Association of DRD2 polymorphisms and chlorpromazine-induced extrapyramidal syndrome in Chinese schizophrenic patients. AIM: Extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) is most commonly affected by typical antipsychotic drugs that have a high affinity with the D2 receptor. Recently, many research groups have reported on the positive relationship between the genetic variations in the DRD2 gene and the therapeutic response in schizophrenia patients as a result of the role of variations in the receptor in modulating receptor expression. In this study, we evaluate the role DRD2 plays in chlorpromazine-induced EPS in schizophrenic patients. METHODS: We identified seven SNP(single nucleotide polymorphism) (-141Cins>del, TaqIB, TaqID, Ser311Cys, rs6275, rs6277 and TaqIA) in the DRD2 gene in 146 schizophrenic inpatients (59 with EPS and 87 without EPS according to the Simpson-Angus Scale) treated with chlorpromazine after 8 weeks. The alleles of all loci were determined by PCR (polymerase chain reaction). RESULTS: Polymorphisms TaqID, Ser311Cys and rs6277 were not polymorphic in the population recruited in the present study. No statistical significance was found in the allele distribution of -141Cins>del, TaqIB, rs6275 and TaqIA or in the estimated haplotypes (constituted by TaqIB, rs6275 and TaqIA) in linkage disequilibrium between the two groups. CONCLUSION: Our results did not lend strong support to the view that the genetic variation of the DRD2 gene plays a major role in the individually variable adverse effect induced by chlorpromazine, at least in Chinese patients with schizophrenia. Our results confirmed a previous study on the relationship between DRD2 and EPS in Caucasians.

17549393	A novel IRF6 nonsense mutation (Y67X) in a German family with Van der Woude syndrome. Van der Woude syndrome (VWS) is the most common type of syndromic orofacial cleft, which accounts for approximately 2% of all cleft lip and palate cases. It is characterised by variable association of lower lip pits, cleft lip and cleft palate, and hypodontia. VWS arises as the result of mutations in the gene encoding interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6). The disorder is transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner, with high penetrance and variable expressivity. Very recently, mutations of the IRF6 gene in exons 2-9 have been found in VWS patients, suggesting that this gene plays an important role in orofacial development. We report a novel mutation of the IRF6 gene in a German family. Five out of the 12 persons affected were able to be investigated. The mutation produced a stop codon within exon 4 of the IRF6 gene. All 5 patients were heterozygous for a base substitution c.201C>A changing the tyrosine codon at amino acid position 67 into a stop codon (p.Y67X) in exon 4. The premature stop codon was responsible for a truncated protein lacking parts of the DNA- binding domain and the complete Smad-interferon regulatory factor-binding domain probably essential for interactions with the Smad transcription factors.

17962394	Skewed X inactivation in an X linked nystagmus family resulted from a novel, p.R229G, missense mutation in the FRMD7 gene. AIMS: This study aimed to identify the underlying genetic defect of a large Turkish X linked nystagmus (NYS) family. METHODS: Both Xp11 and Xq26 loci were tested by linkage analysis. The 12 exons and intron-exon junctions of the FRMD7 gene were screened by direct sequencing. X chromosome inactivation analysis was performed by enzymatic predigestion of DNA with a methylation-sensitive enzyme, followed by PCR of the polymorphic CAG repeat of the androgen receptor gene. RESULTS: The family contained 162 individuals, among whom 28 had NYS. Linkage analysis confirmed the Xq26 locus. A novel missense c.686C>G mutation, which causes the substitution of a conserved arginine at amino acid position 229 by glycine (p.R229G) in exon 8 of the FRMD7 gene, was observed. This change was not documented in 120 control individuals. The clinical findings in a female who was homozygous for the mutation were not different from those of affected heterozygous females. Skewed X inactivation was remarkable in the affected females of the family. CONCLUSIONS: A novel p.R229G mutation in the FRMD7 gene causes the NYS phenotype, and skewed X inactivation influences the manifestation of the disease in X linked NYS females.

18046082	Identification of apolipoprotein E Guangzhou (arginine 150 proline), a new variant associated with lipoprotein glomerulopathy. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Lipoprotein glomerulopathy (LPG) is a rare disease characterized by thrombus-like substances in markedly dilated glomerular capillaries and elevated plasma levels of apolipoprotein E (apoE). Previous studies have shown that genetic disorders of apoE may contribute to the pathogenesis of LPG, but LPG may not be caused by apoE gene mutations in Chinese patients. This study investigated the association of a new variant of apoE with LPG in a Chinese family. METHODS: The apoE gene in a family with 4 LPG patients was sequenced. The polymerase chain reaction product of coding region of apoE exon 4 was cloned into pMD 18-T vector and then sequenced. RESULTS: A novel point mutation in exon 4 of the apoE gene was identified in all 4 LPG patients and 1 asymptomatic family member. Sequence analysis confirmed a nucleotide G to C point mutation in exon 4 (base 308) of the apoE gene in all patients and the asymptomatic family member. This missense mutation denotes amino acid substitution of the proline residue for arginine residue at position 150 of apoE. Those patients were all heterozygotes with apoE Guangzhou. One of 2 grandsons was a heterozygous carrier of apoE Guangzhou, although he did not have proteinuria. CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that apoE (arginine 150 proline) is a novel apoE variant that etiologically related to LPG. This variant (apoE Guangzhou) may cause a marked molecular conformational change of the apoE and thus impair its binding ability to lipids.

21054465	Mutational analysis of CYP2C8 in hypertensive patients using denaturing high performance liquid chromatography. WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: CYP2C8 is involved in the cytochrome P450 (CYP) epoxygenase pathway. Arachidonic acid metabolites such as epoxyeicosatrienenoic acids and hydroxyeicosatetrenoic acids, produced may have a role in hypertension. We aimed to develop a medium through-put method for screening samples of known and new mutations of CYP2C8 using denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC). METHODS: DNA samples from 200 subjects (hypertensive patients and healthy controls) were screened for SNPs in CYP2C8 using DHPLC. Genotypes and allelic frequencies of CYP2C8 between the healthy controls and patients with hypertension were compared. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS: Six variants were detected and two were new; T deletion at 5063 and substitution of C to T at 33468 in exon 8. Differences in variant frequencies were detected between the controls and hypertensive patients. The controls have significantly higher prevalence of C35322C compared to the patients. The functional significance of the SNP at 35322 requires further study. Having homozygous C35322C could be a protective factor for hypertension. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Denaturing high performance liquid chromatography is useful for population screening to identify new and existing SNPs. A higher frequency of the C35322T SNP was observed among hypertensive patients than control subjects. This potentially important observation requires confirmation and the clinical significance assessed.

22711886	TNFR-associated factor 2 deficiency in B lymphocytes predisposes to chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma in mice. We have previously shown that transgenic (tg) mice expressing in B lymphocytes both BCL-2 and a TNFR-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) mutant lacking the really interesting new gene and zinc finger domains (TRAF2DN) develop small lymphocytic lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia with high incidence (Zapata et al. 2004. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 101: 16600-16605). Further analysis of the expression of TRAF2 and TRAF2DN in purified B cells demonstrated that expression of both endogenous TRAF2 and tg TRAF2DN was negligible in Traf2DN-tg B cells compared with wild-type mice. This was the result of proteasome-dependent degradation, and rendered TRAF2DN B cells as bona fide TRAF2-deficient B cells. Similar to B cells with targeted Traf2 deletion, Traf2DN-tg mice show expanded marginal zone B cell population and have constitutive p100 NF-kappaB2 processing. Also, TRAF3, X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis, and Bcl-X(L) expression levels were increased, whereas cellular inhibitors of apoptosis 1 and 2 levels were drastically reduced compared with those found in wild-type B cells. Moreover, consistent with previous results, we also show that TRAF2 was required for efficient JNK and ERK activation in response to CD40 engagement. However, TRAF2 was deleterious for BCR-mediated activation of these kinases. In contrast, TRAF2 deficiency had no effect on CD40-mediated p38 MAPK activation but significantly reduced BCR-mediated p38 activation. Finally, we further confirm that TRAF2 was required for CD40-mediated proliferation, but its absence relieved B cells of the need for B cell activating factor for survival. Altogether, our results suggest that TRAF2 deficiency cooperates with BCL-2 in promoting chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma in mice, possibly by specifically enforcing marginal zone B cell accumulation, increasing X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis expression, and rendering B cells independent of B cell activating factor for survival.

24036311	CTR9/PAF1c regulates molecular lineage identity, histone H3K36 trimethylation and genomic imprinting during preimplantation development. Genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming is required for successful preimplantation development. Inappropriate or deficient chromatin regulation can result in defective lineage specification and loss of genomic imprinting, compromising normal development. Here we report that two members of the RNA polymerase II associated factor, homolog (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) complex (PAF1 complex) components, Ctr9 and Rtf1, are required during mammalian preimplantation development. We demonstrate that Ctr9-deficient embryos fail to correctly specify lineages at the blastocyst stage. Expression of some lineage specific factors is markedly reduced in Ctr9 knockdown embryos, including Eomes, Elf5 and Sox2, while others are inappropriately expressed (Oct4, Nanog, Gata6, Fgf4 and Sox17). We also show that several imprinted genes (Mest, Peg3, Snrpn and Meg3) are aberrantly expressed although allele specific DNA methylation is not altered. We document a loss of histone H3 lysine 36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) in Ctr9-deficient embryos and confirm that knockdown of either Setd2 or Rtf1 results in similar phenotypes. These findings show that the PAF1 complex is required for mammalian development, likely through regulation of H3K36me3, and indicate functional conservation of the PAF1 complex from yeast to mammals in vivo.

25080425	Regulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 and apoptotic pathways by betaine attenuates isoproterenol-induced acute myocardial injury in rats. The present study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective effects of betaine on acute myocardial ischemia induced experimentally in rats focusing on regulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and apoptotic pathways as the potential mechanism underlying the drug effect. Male Sprague Dawley rats were treated with betaine (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg) orally for 40 days. Acute myocardial ischemic injury was induced in rats by subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (85 mg/kg), for two consecutive days. Serum cardiac marker enzyme, histopathological variables and expression of protein levels were analyzed. Oral administration of betaine (200 and 400 mg/kg) significantly reduced the level of cardiac marker enzyme in the serum and prevented left ventricular remodeling. Western blot analysis showed that isoproterenol-induced phosphorylation of STAT3 was maintained or further enhanced by betaine treatment in myocardium. Furthermore, betaine (200 and 400 mg/kg) treatment increased the ventricular expression of Bcl-2 and reduced the level of Bax, therefore causing a significant increase in the ratio of Bcl-2/Bax. The protective role of betaine on myocardial damage was further confirmed by histopathological examination. In summary, our results showed that betaine pretreatment attenuated isoproterenol-induced acute myocardial ischemia via the regulation of STAT3 and apoptotic pathways.

27509880	Combination of the histone deacetylase inhibitor depsipeptide and 5-fluorouracil upregulates major histocompatibility complex class II and p21 genes and activates caspase-3/7 in human colon cancer HCT-116 cells. Epigenetic anticancer drugs such as histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been combined with existing anticancer drugs for synergistic or additive effects. In the present study, we found that a very low concentration of depsipeptide, an HDAC inhibitor, potentiated the antitumor activity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in a human colon cancer cell model using HCT-116, HT29, and SW48 cells via the inhibition of colony formation ability or cellular viability. Exposure to a combination of 5-FU (1.75 uM) and 1 nM depsipeptide for 24 and 48 h resulted in a 3- to 4-fold increase in activated caspase-3/7, while 5-FU alone failed to activate caspase-3/7. Microarray and subsequent gene ontology analyses revealed that compared to 5-FU or depsipeptide alone, the combination treatment of 5-FU and depsipeptide upregulated genes related to cell death and the apoptotic process consistent with the inhibition of colony formation and caspase-3/7 activation. These analyses indicated marked upregulation of antigen processing and presentation of peptide or polysaccharide antigen via major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class (GO:0002504) and MHC protein complex (GO:0042611). Compared with vehicle controls, the cells treated with the combination of 5-FU and depsipeptide showed marked induction (3- to 8.5-fold) of expression of MHC class II genes, but not of MHC class I genes. Furthermore, our global analysis of gene expression, which was focused on genes involved in the molecular regulation of MHC class II genes, showed enhancement of pro-apoptotic PCAF and CIITA after the combination of 5-FU and depsipeptide. These results may indicate a closer relationship between elevation of MHC class II expression and cellular apoptosis induced by the combination of depsipeptide and 5-FU. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to report that the combination of 5-FU and depsipeptide induces human colon cancer cell apoptosis in a concerted manner with the induction of MHC class II gene expression.

27840894	Seven novel and six de novo PHEX gene mutations in patients with hypophosphatemic rickets. Inactivating mutations in phosphate-regulating gene with homologies to endopeptidase on the X chromosome (PHEX) have been identified as a cause of X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH; OMIM 307800). In the present study, we enrolled 43 patients from 18 unrelated families clinically diagnosed with hypophosphatemic rickets and 250 healthy controls. For each available individual, all 22 exons with their exon-intron boundaries of the PHEX gene were directly sequenced. The levels of serum fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) were measured as well. Sequencing analysis detected 17 different PHEX gene mutations, and 7 of these were identified as novel: 3 missense mutations, including c.304G>A (p.Gly102Arg) in exon 3, c.229T>C (p.Cys77Arg) in exon 3 and c.824T>C (p.Leu275Pro) in exon 7; 2 deletion mutations, including c.528delT (p.Glu177LysfsX44) in exon 5 and c.1234delA (p.Ser412ValfsX12) in exon 11; and 2 alternative splicing mutations, including c.436_436+1delAG in intron 4 at splicing donor sites and c.1483-1G>C in intron 13 at splicing acceptor sites. Moreover, 6 mutations were proven to be de novo in 6 sporadic cases and the probands were all females. No mutations were found in the 250 healthy controls. The serum levels of FGF23 varied widely among the patients with XLH, and no significant difference was found when compared with those of the healthy controls. On the whole, the findings of this study provide new insight into the spectrum of PHEX mutations and provide potential evidence of a critical domain in PHEX protein. In addition, the finding of an overlap of the serum FGF23 levels between the patients with XLH and the healthy controls indicates its limited diagnostic value in XLH.

6086495	Localisation of the Becker muscular dystrophy gene on the short arm of the X chromosome by linkage to cloned DNA sequences. A linkage study in 30 Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) kindreds using three cloned DNA sequences from the X chromosome which demonstrate restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs), suggests that the BMD gene is located on the short arm of the X chromosome, in the p21 region. The genes for Becker and Duchenne dystrophies must therefore be closely linked, if not allelic, and any future DNA probes found to be of practical use in one disorder should be equally applicable to the other. The linkage analysis also provides data on the frequency of recombination along the short arm of the X chromosome, and across the centromeric region.. 

7811247	X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD): a novel mutation of the ALD gene in 6 members of a family presenting with 5 different phenotypes. Fragments of the adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) cDNA from a patient with adolescent ALD were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and subcloned. Bidirectional sequencing of the entire coding ALD gene disclosed a cytosine to guanine transversion at nucleotide 1451 in exon five, resulting in substitution of proline 484 by arginine. Five of nine siblings of the patient, comprising two cerebral ALD, one adrenomyeloneuropathy, one Addison only as well as the symptomatic mother (all accumulating very long chain fatty acids) carried this mutation, which was not found in the unaffected persons, in five unrelated ALD patients, and in twenty controls. We propose that this missense mutation generated the disease per se as well as the metabolic defect; the different phenotypes, however, must have originated by means of additional pathogenetic factors.. 

8944024	Detection of heterozygous mutations in BRCA1 using high density oligonucleotide arrays and two-colour fluorescence analysis. The ability to scan a large gene rapidly and accurately for all possible heterozygous mutations in large numbers of patient samples will be critical for the future of medicine. We have designed high-density arrays consisting of over 96, 600 oligonucleotides 20-nucleotides (nt) in length to screen for a wide range of heterozygous mutations in the 3. 45-kilobases (kb) exon 11 of the hereditary breast and ovarian cancer gene BRCA1. Reference and test samples were co-hybridized to these arrays and differences in hybridization patterns quantitated by two-colour analysis. Fourteen of fifteen patient samples with known mutations were accurately diagnosed, and no false positive mutations were identified in 20 control samples. Eight single nucleotide polymorphisms were also readily detected. DNA chip-based assays may provide a valuable new technology for high-throughput cost-efficient detection of genetic alterations. 

16838170	Single nucleotide polymorphisms of the HNF4alpha gene are associated with the conversion to type 2 diabetes mellitus: the STOP-NIDDM trial. Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4alpha (HNF4alpha) is a transcription factor, which is necessary for normal function of human liver and pancreatic islets. We investigated whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of HNF4A, encoding HNF4alpha, influenced the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) to type 2 diabetes mellitus in subjects of the STOP-NIDDM trial. This trial aimed at evaluating the effect of acarbose compared to placebo in the prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Eight SNPs covering the intragenic and alternate P2 promoter regions of HNF4A were genotyped in study samples using the TaqMan Allelic Discrimination Assays. Three SNPs in the P2 promoter region (rs4810424, rs1884614, and rs2144908) were in almost complete association (D'>0.97, r (2)>0.95) and, therefore, only rs4810424 was included in further analyses. Female carriers of the less frequent C allele of rs4810424 had a 1.7-fold elevated risk [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.09-2.66; P=0.020] for the conversion to diabetes compared to women with the common genotype after the adjustment for age, treatment group (placebo or acarbose), smoking, weight at baseline, and weight change. No association was found in men. Haplotype analysis based on three SNPs (rs4810424, rs2071197, and rs3818247) representing the linkage disequilibrium blocks in our study population indicated that the conversion to type 2 diabetes mellitus was dependent on the number of risk alleles in different haplotypes in women. Our results suggest that SNPs of HNF4A and their haplotypes predispose to type 2 diabetes mellitus in female subjects of the STOP-NIDDM study population.

20801540	Hepatic but not brain iron is rapidly chelated by deferasirox in aceruloplasminemia due to a novel gene mutation. BACKGROUND _#38; AIMS: Aceruloplasminemia is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease associated with brain and liver iron accumulation which typically presents with movement disorders, retinal degeneration, and diabetes mellitus. Ceruloplasmin is a multi-copper ferroxidase that is secreted into plasma and facilitates cellular iron export and iron binding to transferrin. RESULTS: A novel homozygous ceruloplasmin gene mutation, c.2554+1G>T, was identified as the cause of aceruloplasminemia in three affected siblings. Two siblings presented with movement disorders and diabetes. Complementary DNA sequencing showed that this mutation causes skipping of exon 14 and deletion of amino acids 809-852 while preserving the open reading frame. Western blotting of liver extracts and sera of affected patients showed retention of the abnormal protein in the liver. Aceruloplasminemia was associated with severe brain and liver iron overload, where hepatic mRNA expression of the iron hormone hepcidin was increased, corresponding to the degree of iron overload. Hepatic iron concentration normalized after 3 and 5months of iron chelation therapy with deferasirox, which was also associated with reduced insulin demands. During short term treatment there was no clinical or imaging evidence for significant effects on brain iron overload. CONCLUSIONS: Aceruloplasminemia can show an incomplete clinical penetrance but is invariably associated with iron accumulation in the liver and in the brain. Iron accumulation in aceruloplasminemia is a result of defective cellular iron export, where hepcidin regulation is appropriate for the degree of iron overload. Iron chelation with deferasirox was effective in mobilizing hepatic iron but has no effect on brain iron.

25550469	The androgen receptor confers protection against diet-induced atherosclerosis, obesity, and dyslipidemia in female mice. Androgens have important cardiometabolic actions in males, but their metabolic role in females is unclear. To determine the physiologic androgen receptor (AR)-dependent actions of androgens on atherogenesis in female mice, we generated female AR-knockout (ARKO) mice on an atherosclerosis-prone apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient background. After 8 weeks on a high-fat diet, but not on a normal chow diet, atherosclerosis in aorta was increased in ARKO females (+59% vs. control apoE-deficient mice with intact AR gene). They also displayed increased body weight (+18%), body fat percentage (+62%), and hepatic triglyceride levels, reduced insulin sensitivity, and a marked atherogenic dyslipidemia (serum cholesterol, +52%). Differences in atherosclerosis, body weight, and lipid levels between ARKO and control mice were abolished in mice that were ovariectomized before puberty, consistent with a protective action of ovarian androgens mediated via the AR. Furthermore, the AR agonist dihydrotestosterone reduced atherosclerosis (-41%; thoracic aorta), subcutaneous fat mass (-44%), and cholesterol levels (-35%) in ovariectomized mice, reduced hepatocyte lipid accumulation in hepatoma cells in vitro, and regulated mRNA expression of hepatic genes pivotal for lipid homeostasis. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the AR protects against diet-induced atherosclerosis in female mice and propose that this is mediated by modulation of body composition and lipid metabolism.

27090298	Circulating Fatty Acid Synthase in pregnant women: Relationship to blood pressure, maternal metabolism and newborn parameters. The enzyme FASN (fatty acid synthase) is potentially related with hypertension and metabolic dysfunction. FASN is highly expressed in the human placenta. We aimed to investigate the relationship circulating FASN has with blood pressure, maternal metabolism and newborn parameters in healthy pregnant women. Circulating FASN was assessed in 115 asymptomatic pregnant women in the second trimester of gestation along with C-peptide, fasting glucose and insulin, post-load glucose lipids, HMW-adiponectin and blood pressure (the latter was assessed in each trimester of gestation). At birth, newborns and placentas were weighed. FASN expression was also able to be assessed in 80 placentas. Higher circulating FASN was associated with lower systolic blood pressure (SBP), with a more favourable metabolic phenotype (lower fasting glucose and insulin, post load glucose, HbAc1, HOMA-IR and C-peptide), and with lower placental and birth weight (all p < 0.05 to p < 0.001). Placental FASN expression related positively to circulating FASN (p < 0.005) and negatively to placental weight (p < 0.05). Our observations suggest a physiological role of placental FASN in human pregnancy. Future studies will clarify whether circulating FASN of placental origin does actually regulate placental and fetal growth, and (thereby) has a favourable influence on the pregnant mother's insulin sensitivity and blood pressure.

27860185	Sildenafil attenuates hypoxic pulmonary remodelling by inhibiting bone marrow progenitor cells. The recruitment of bone marrow (BM)-derived progenitor cells to the lung is related to pulmonary remodelling and the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension (PH). Although sildenafil is a known target in PH treatment, the underlying molecular mechanism is still elusive. To test the hypothesis that the therapeutic effect of sildenafil is linked to the reduced recruitment of BM-derived progenitor cells, we induced pulmonary remodelling in rats by two-week exposure to chronic hypoxia (CH, 10% oxygen), a trigger of BM-derived progenitor cells. Rats were treated with either placebo (saline) or sildenafil (1.4 mg/kg/day ip) during CH. Control rats were kept in room air (21% oxygen) with no treatment. As expected, sildenafil attenuated the CH-induced increase in right ventricular systolic pressure and right ventricular hypertrophy. However, sildenafil suppressed the CH-induced increase in c-kit(+) cells in the adventitia of pulmonary arteries. Moreover, sildenafil reduced the number of c-kit(+) cells that colocalize with tyrosine kinase receptor 2 (VEGF-R2) and CD68 (a marker for macrophages), indicating a positive effect on moderating hypoxia-induced smooth muscle cell proliferation and inflammation without affecting the pulmonary levels of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1a. Furthermore, sildenafil depressed the number of CXCR4(+) cells. Collectively, these findings indicate that the improvement in pulmonary haemodynamic by sildenafil is linked to decreased recruitment of BM-derived c-kit(+) cells in the pulmonary tissue. The attenuation of the recruitment of BM-derived c-kit(+) cells by sildenafil may provide novel therapeutic insights into the control of pulmonary remodelling.

15867855	Genetic variants of the T-cell immunoglobulin mucin 1 but not the T-cell immunoglobulin mucin 3 gene are associated with asthma in an African American population. BACKGROUND: The T-cell immunoglobulin mucin ( TIM ) proteins and their genetic variants have been suggested to play a role in regulating allergic diseases. OBJECTIVE: Genetic association of the sequence variants for TIM-1 and TIM-3 genes with asthma in an African American population was investigated. METHODS: Both case-control and family-based association analyses were performed for a total of 7 polymorphisms, including 3 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) and 1 insertion/deletion polymorphism in the TIM-1 and 3 SNPs in the TIM-3 genes. The exposure to hepatitis A virus as judged by seropositivity was also examined. RESULTS: In the case-control design, the frequencies of the TT genotype for SNP rs2277025 and the homozygous deletion variant (157delMTTTVP) in the fourth exon of the TIM-1 gene were higher among patients with patients with asthma compared with the controls (odds ratio [OR], 2.779, P = .016; and OR, 3.09, P = .022, respectively). This association was substantiated by haplotype analysis of these and 2 additional SNPs (OR, 2.48; P = .004), and also by family-based tests for the allele and haplotype carrying 157delMTTTVP (P = .009 and P = .048, respectively). Furthermore, this association seems to exist even in the hepatitis A virus-seronegative subjects in our data. None of the 3 variants in TIM-3 genes yielded significant association with either asthma or asthma-related phenotypes. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that the genetic variants of the TIM-1 but not the TIM-3 gene contribute to asthma susceptibility in this African-American population.

26684240	Identification of the BRAF V600E mutation in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Genomic profiles of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) are still insufficiently understood, and the genetic alterations associated with drug responses have not been studied. Here, we performed whole exome sequencing of 12 GEP-NETs from patients enrolled in a nonrandomized, open-labeled, single-center phase II study for pazopanib, and integrated our results with previously published results on pancreas (n = 12) and small intestine NETs (n = 50). The mean numbers of somatic mutations in each case varied widely from 20 to 4682. Among 12 GEP-NETs, eight showed mutations of more than one cancer-related gene, including TP53, CNBD1, RB1, APC, BCOR, BRAF, CTNNB1, EGFR, EP300, ERBB3, KDM6A, KRAS, MGA, MLL3, PTEN, RASA1, SMARCB1, SPEN, TBC1D12, and VHL. TP53 was recurrently mutated in three cases, whereas CNBD1 and RB1 mutations were identified in two cases. Three GEP-NET patients with TP53 mutations demonstrated a durable response and one small intestinal grade (G) 1 NET patient with BRAF V600E mutation showed progression after pazopanib treatment. We found BRAF V600E (G1 NET from rectum and two G3 NETs from colon) and BRAF G593S (G2 NET from pancreas) missense mutations (9.1%) in an independent cohort of 44 GEP-NETs from the rectum (n = 26), colon (n = 7), pancreas (n = 4), small intestine (n = 3), stomach (n = 3) and appendix (n = 1) by Sanger sequencing. All tumor specimens were obtained before chemotherapy. In conclusion, BRAF V600E mutation is likely to result in resistance to pazopanib but may be a potentianally actionable mutation in metastatic GEP-NETs patients.

27707793	MicroRNA deep sequencing in two adult stem cell populations identifies miR-501 as a novel regulator of myosin heavy chain during muscle regeneration. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of skeletal muscle regeneration, but the underlying mechanisms are still incompletely understood. Here, comparative miRNA sequencing analysis of myogenic progenitor cells (MPs) and non-myogenic fibroblast-adipocyte progenitors (FAPs) during cardiotoxin (CTX)-induced muscle injury uncovered miR-501 as a novel muscle-specific miRNA. miR-501 is an intronic miRNA and its expression levels in MPs correlated with its host gene, chloride channel, voltage-sensitive 5 (Clcn5). Pharmacological inhibition of miR-501 dramatically blunted the induction of embryonic myosin heavy chain (MYH3) and, to a lesser extent, adult myosin isoforms during muscle regeneration, and promoted small-diameter neofibers. An unbiased target identification approach in primary myoblasts validated gigaxonin as a target of miR-501 that mimicked the effect of miR-501 inhibition on MYH3 expression. In the mdx mouse model, which models a pathological disease state, not only was miR-501 induced in regenerating skeletal muscle, but also its serum levels were increased, which correlated with the disease state of the animals. Our results suggest that miR-501 plays a key role in adult muscle regeneration and might serve as a novel serum biomarker for the activation of adult muscle stem cells.

21799811	Strong association of 677 C>T substitution in the MTHFR gene with male infertility--a study on an indian population and a meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is an important enzyme of folate and methionine metabolism, making it crucial for DNA synthesis and methylation. The objective of this study was to analyze MTHFR gene 677C>T polymorphism in infertile male individuals from North India, followed by a meta-analysis on our data and published studies. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We undertook genotyping on a total of 837 individuals including well characterized infertile (N=522) and confirmed fertile (N=315) individuals. The SNP was typed by direct DNA sequencing. Chi square test was done for statistical analysis. Published studies were searched using appropriate keywords. Source of data collection for meta-analysis included 'Pubmed', 'Ovid' and 'Google Scholar'. Those studies analyzing 677C>T polymorphism in male infertility and presenting all relevant data were included in meta-analysis. The genotype data for infertile subjects and fertile controls was extracted from each study. Chi square test was done to obtain odds ratio (OR) and p-value. Meta-analysis was performed using Comprehensive Meta-analysis software (Version 2). The frequency of mutant (T) allele (p=0.0025) and genotypes (CT+TT) (p=0.0187) was significantly higher in infertile individuals in comparison to fertile controls in our case-control study. The overall summary estimate (OR) for allele and genotype meta-analysis were 1.304 (p=0.000), 1.310 (p=0.000), respectively, establishing significant association of 677C>T polymorphism with male infertility. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: 677C>T substitution associated strongly with male infertility in Indian population. Allele and genotype meta-analysis also supported its strong correlation with male infertility, thus establishing it as a risk factor.

15951966	Screening for exonic copy number mutations at MSH2 and MLH1 by MAPH. BACKGROUND: Exonic deletions in MSH2 and MLH1 are significant contributors to the mutation spectrum in HNPCC, and heterozygous changes in exon copy number are not detected by conventional mutation screening methods. AIMS: We aimed to develop methods for screening copy number changes in all the exons of the MLH1 and MSH2 genes using a single multiplex amplifiable probe hybridisation (MAPH) assay. METHODS: We developed a probe set consisting of probes from the 19 exons of MLH1 and 16 exons of MSH2, and 3 control probes, and applied it to screening for deletions and duplications using fluorescent detection of amplified fragments. RESULTS: We tested 73 DNA samples from controls and 50 from HNPCC patients in whom no point mutations had been found, and detected 10 copy number changes among the patient samples. A deletion of about 1.4 kb including exon 3 of MSH2 was confirmed by amplification of a junction fragment, and was shown to be the result of an unequal recombination between intronic Alu elements. CONCLUSIONS: MAPH can detect exonic copy number changes in MLH1 and MSH2 in DNA from HNPCC patients. Since finding an exonic deletion or duplication makes full sequence analysis unnecessary, it may be most cost-effective to pre-screen samples by MAPH or MLPA before screening for point mutations.

17968299	Analysis of -1082 IL-10 gene polymorphism in Iranian patients with generalized aggressive periodontitis. BACKGROUND: Periodontitis is a multifactorial disease and its severe forms, such as aggressive periodontitis, are suggested to have a genetic basis. Among the genetic factors, polymorphisms in cytokine genes have recently been described in susceptibility to periodontitis. IL-10 is a multi-functional cytokine thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis. A substitution G/A polymorphism in the promoter region of the IL-10 gene at position -1082 has been associated with different amounts of IL-10 production. The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible links between -1082(G/A) polymorphism of the IL-10 gene and the generalized form of aggressive periodontitis. MATERIAL/METHODS: This study included 52 Iranian Khorasanian (north-east province of Iran) subjects suffering from generalized aggressive periodontitis referred to the Periodontology Department of Mashhad Dental School. They were compared to 61 age and sex-matched healthy controls of the same race. DNA was isolated from peripheral blood cells and genotyping was performed by means of the amplification refractory mutation system polymerase chain reaction (ARMS-PCR) method. Data were analyzed using the chi-squared test. RESULTS: There was no marked difference in genotype frequencies between the controls and generalized aggressive periodontitis patients (p=0.585). Moreover, no association between patients and normal subjects was found in their allele frequency (p=0.329). CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the polymorphic nucleotide A at position -1082 of the IL-10 gene is not associated with generalized aggressive periodontitis in the Iranian population.

20126413	U87MG decoded: the genomic sequence of a cytogenetically aberrant human cancer cell line. U87MG is a commonly studied grade IV glioma cell line that has been analyzed in at least 1,700 publications over four decades. In order to comprehensively characterize the genome of this cell line and to serve as a model of broad cancer genome sequencing, we have generated greater than 30x genomic sequence coverage using a novel 50-base mate paired strategy with a 1.4kb mean insert library. A total of 1,014,984,286 mate-end and 120,691,623 single-end two-base encoded reads were generated from five slides. All data were aligned using a custom designed tool called BFAST, allowing optimal color space read alignment and accurate identification of DNA variants. The aligned sequence reads and mate-pair information identified 35 interchromosomal translocation events, 1,315 structural variations (>100 bp), 191,743 small (<21 bp) insertions and deletions (indels), and 2,384,470 single nucleotide variations (SNVs). Among these observations, the known homozygous mutation in PTEN was robustly identified, and genes involved in cell adhesion were overrepresented in the mutated gene list. Data were compared to 219,187 heterozygous single nucleotide polymorphisms assayed by Illumina 1M Duo genotyping array to assess accuracy: 93.83% of all SNPs were reliably detected at filtering thresholds that yield greater than 99.99% sequence accuracy. Protein coding sequences were disrupted predominantly in this cancer cell line due to small indels, large deletions, and translocations. In total, 512 genes were homozygously mutated, including 154 by SNVs, 178 by small indels, 145 by large microdeletions, and 35 by interchromosomal translocations to reveal a highly mutated cell line genome. Of the small homozygously mutated variants, 8 SNVs and 99 indels were novel events not present in dbSNP. These data demonstrate that routine generation of broad cancer genome sequence is possible outside of genome centers. The sequence analysis of U87MG provides an unparalleled level of mutational resolution compared to any cell line to date.

27866394	Repeated otilonium bromide administration prevents neurotransmitter changes in colon of rats underwent to wrap restraint stress. Otilonium bromide (OB) is a spasmolytic drug successfully used for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Its efficacy has been attributed to the block of L- and T-type Ca(2+) channels and muscarinic and tachykinin receptors in the smooth muscle. Furthermore, in healthy rats, repeated OB administration modified neurotransmitter expression and function suggesting other mechanisms of action. On this basis, we investigated whether repeated OB treatment prevented the functional and neurochemical changes observed in the colon of rats underwent to wrap restrain stress (WRS) a psychosocial stressor considered suitable to reproduce the main IBS signs and symptoms. In control, WRS and OB/WRS rats functional parameters were measured in vivo and morphological investigations were done ex vivo in the colon. The results showed that OB counteracts most of the neurotransmitters changes caused by WRS. In particular, the drug prevents the decrease in SP-, NK1r-, nNOS-, VIP-, and S100b-immunoreactivity (IR) and the increase in CGRP-, and CRF1r-IR. On the contrary, OB does not affect the increase in CRF2r-IR neurons observed in WRS rats and does not interfere with the mild mucosal inflammation due to WRS. Finally, OB per se increases the Mr2 expression in the muscle wall and decreases the number of the myenteric ChAT-IR neurons. Functional findings show a significantly reduction in the number of spontaneous abdominal contraction in OB treated rats. The ability of OB to block L-type Ca(2+) channels, also expressed by enteric neurons, might represent a possible mechanism through which OB exerts its actions.

19624920	Clusters of multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis cases, Europe. Molecular surveillance of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) was implemented in Europe as case reporting in 2005. For all new MDR TB cases detected from January 2003 through June 2007, countries reported case-based epidemiologic data and DNA fingerprint patterns of MDR TB strains when available. International clusters were detected and analyzed. From 2003 through mid-2007 in Europe, 2,494 cases of MDR TB were reported from 24 European countries. Epidemiologic and molecular data were linked for 593 (39%) cases, and 672 insertion sequence 6110 DNA fingerprint patterns were reported from 19 countries. Of these patterns, 288 (43%) belonged to 18 European clusters; 7 clusters (242/288 cases, 84%) were characterized by strains of the Beijing genotype family, including the largest cluster (175/288 cases, 61%). Both clustering and the Beijing genotype were associated with strains originating in eastern European countries. Molecular cluster detection contributes to identification of transmission profile, risk factors, and control measures.

29049388	An inducible mouse model of podocin-mutation-related nephrotic syndrome. Mutations in the NPHS2 gene, encoding podocin, cause hereditary nephrotic syndrome. The most common podocin mutation, R138Q, is associated with early disease onset and rapid progression to end-stage renal disease. Knock-in mice carrying a R140Q mutation, the mouse analogue of human R138Q, show developmental arrest of podocytes and lethal renal failure at neonatal age. Here we created a conditional podocin knock-in model named NPHS2 R140Q/-, using a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase, which permits to study the effects of the mutation in postnatal life. Within the first week of R140Q hemizygosity induction the animals developed proteinuria, which peaked after 4-5 weeks. Subsequently the animals developed progressive renal failure, with a median survival time of 12 (95% CI: 11-13) weeks. Foot process fusion was observed within one week, progressing to severe and global effacement in the course of the disease. The number of podocytes per glomerulus gradually diminished to 18% compared to healthy controls 12-16 weeks after induction. The fraction of segmentally sclerosed glomeruli was 25%, 85% and 97% at 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Severe tubulointerstitial fibrosis was present at later disease stage and was correlated quantitatively with the level of proteinuria at early disease stages. While R140Q podocin mRNA expression was elevated, protein abundance was reduced by more than 50% within one week following induction. Whereas miRNA21 expression persistently increased during the first 4 weeks, miRNA-193a expression peaked 2 weeks after induction. In conclusion, the inducible R140Q-podocin mouse model is an auspicious model of the most common genetic cause of human nephrotic syndrome, with a spontaneous disease course strongly reminiscent of the human disorder. This model constitutes a valuable tool to test the efficacy of novel pharmacological interventions aimed to improve podocyte function and viability and attenuate proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis and progressive renal failure.

17345627	Over-expression of BMP4 and BMP5 in a child with axial skeletal malformations and heterotopic ossification: a new syndrome. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a highly conserved class of signaling molecules that induce ectopic cartilage and bone formation in vivo. Dysregulated expression of bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) is found in the cells of patients who have fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP), a genetic disorder of axial and appendicular skeletal malformation and progressive heterotopic ossification. Loss of function mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein 5 (bmp5) gene leading to under-expression of BMP5 cause the murine short ear syndrome, characterized by small malformed ears and a broad range of axial skeletal malformations. We found features reminiscent of both the short ear mouse and FOP in a child with malformed external ears, multiple malformations of the axial skeleton, and progressive heterotopic ossification in the neck and back. We examined BMP mRNA expression in transformed lymphocytes by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and protein expression by ELISA assays and immunohistochemistry. Elevated levels of BMP4 and BMP5 mRNA and protein were detected in the patient's cells while levels of BMP2 mRNA were unchanged. Our data suggest that dysregulated expression of BMP4 and BMP5 genes is associated with an array of human axial skeletal abnormalities similar to the short ear mouse and FOP.

20540798	Sex-differential genetic effect of phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) on carotid atherosclerosis. BACKGROUND: The phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) gene was reported as a susceptibility gene to stroke. The genetic effect might be attributed to its role in modulating the atherogenic process in the carotid arteries. Using carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and plaque index as phenotypes, the present study sought to determine the influence of this gene on subclinical atherosclerosis. METHODS: Carotid ultrasonography was performed on 1013 stroke-free subjects who participated in the health screening programs (age 52.6 +/- 12.2; 47.6% men). Genotype distribution was compared among the high-risk (plaque index > or = 4), low-risk (index = 1-3), and reference (index = 0) groups. We analyzed continuous IMT data and further dichotomized IMT data using mean plus one standard deviation as the cutoff level. Because the plaque prevalence and IMT values displayed a notable difference between men and women, we carried out sex-specific analyses in addition to analyzing the overall data. Rs702553 at the PDE4D gene was selected because it conferred a risk for young stroke in our previous report. Previous young stroke data (190 cases and 211 controls) with an additional 532 control subjects without ultrasonic data were shown as a cross-validation for the genetic effect. RESULTS: In the overall analyses, the rare homozygote of rs702553 led to an OR of 3.1 (p = 0.034) for a plaque index > or = 4. When subjects were stratified by sex, the genetic effect was only evident in men but not in women. Comparing male subjects with plaque index > or = 4 and those with plaque index = 0, the TT genotype was over-represented (27.6% vs. 13.4%, p = 0.008). For dichotomized IMT data in men, the TT genotype had an OR of 2.1 (p = 0.032) for a thicker IMT at the common carotid artery compared with the (AA + AT) genotypes. In women, neither IMT nor plaque index was associated with rs702553. Similarly, SNP rs702553 was only significant in young stroke men (OR = 1.8, p = 0.025) but not in women (p = 0.27). CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates a sex-differential effect of PDE4D on IMT, plaque index and stroke, which highlights its influence on various aspects of atherogenesis.

21130517	Detection of EGFR mutations in plasma DNA from lung cancer patients by mass spectrometry genotyping is predictive of tumor EGFR status and response to EGFR inhibitors. AIMS: EGFR mutations now guide the clinical use of EGFR-targeted therapy in lung cancer. However, standard EGFR mutation analysis requires a minimum amount of tumor tissue, which may not be available in certain situations. In this study, we combined a mass spectrometry genotyping assay (Sequenom) with a mutant-enriched PCR (ME-PCR) to detect EGFR mutations in free plasma DNA from patients with lung cancer. METHOD: DNAs were extracted from 31 plasma samples from 31 patients and analyzed by both methods for EGFR Exon 19 deletion and EGFR L858R mutation. Results in plasma DNA samples were compared with EGFR mutation status obtained in tumor DNA (18/31 EGFR mutant). The relationship of EGFR mutation status in tumor and/or plasma samples to overall survival was assessed. RESULTS: The EGFR mutation status in plasma DNA was identical to the primary tumor in 61% of patients (19/31). By mass spectrometry genotyping, the plasma samples contained mutant DNA corresponding to 5/14 EGFR Exon 19 deletions and 3/4 EGFR L858R mutations previously diagnosed in the matched tumors. Two samples were positive in plasma DNA but negative in primary tumor tissue. Results were similar for samples studied by ME-PCR. For patients treated with erlotinib, overall survival was correlated with the presence of EGFR mutation in plasma and/or tumor tissue (p=0.002), with the two patients positive only in plasma DNA showing responses and favorable outcomes. CONCLUSION: The detection of EGFR mutations in plasma DNA samples by mass spectrometry genotyping and ME-PCR is feasible. A positive EGFR result in plasma DNA has a high predictive value for tumor EGFR status and for favorable clinical course on EGFR-targeted therapy and could therefore be useful in guiding clinical decisions in patients with insufficient or unavailable tumor specimens.

28393239	Psoriasin promotes invasion, aggregation and survival of pancreatic cancer cells; association with disease progression. Psoriasin (S100A7) is an 11-kDa small calcium binding protein initially isolated from psoriatic skin lesions. It belongs to the S100 family of proteins which play an important role in a range of cell functions including proliferation, differentiation, migration and apoptosis. Aberrant Psoriasin expression has been implicated in a range of cancers and is often associated with poor prognosis. This study examined the role of Psoriasin on pancreatic cancer cell functions and the implication in progression of the disease. Expression of Psoriasin was determined in a cohort of pancreatic tissues comprised of 126 pancreatic tumours and 114 adjacent non-tumour pancreatic tissues. Knockdown and overexpression of Psoriasin in pancreatic cancer cells was performed using specifically constructed plasmids, which either had anti-Psoriasin ribozyme transgene or the full length human Psoriasin coding sequence. Psoriasin knockdown and overexpression was verified using conventional RT-PCR and qPCR. The effect of manipulating Psoriasin expression on pancreatic cancer cell functions was assessed using several in vitro cell function assays. Local invasive pancreatic cancers extended beyond the pancreas expressed higher levels of Psoriasin transcripts compared with the cancers confined to the pancreas. Primary tumours with distant metastases exhibited a reduced expression of Psoriasin. Psoriasin overexpression cell lines exhibited significantly increased growth and migration compared to control cells. In addition, Psoriasin overexpression resulted in increased pancreatic cancer cell invasion which was associated with upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9. Overexpression of Psoriasin also promoted aggregation and survival of pancreatic cancer cells when they lost anchorage. Taken together, higher expression of Psoriasin was associated with local invasion in pancreatic cancers. Psoriasin expression is associated with pancreatic cancer cell growth, migration, cell-matrix adhesion, and invasion via regulation of MMPs. As such, the proposed implications of Psoriasin in invasion, disease progression and as a potential therapeutic target warrant further investigation.

16018252	Two novel mutations in SRY gene form Chinese sex reversal XY females. The SRY gene (sex determining region on Y chromosome) acts as TDF and is required for regulating male sex determination. SRY represents a transcription factor belonging to the superfamily of genes sharing the HMG-box motif (high-mobility group-box), which acts as DNA binding region. Deletion and inactivating mutations of SRY are among the known causes of XY sex reversal. Here, we described the screening of 10 patients who presented with 46,XY sex reversal for mutations in open reading frame (ORF) of SRY gene. DNA was isolated from blood samples using standard techniques. A 609 bp fragment from the central portion of the SRY gene was amplified, using primers XES-2 and XES-7. The amplified PCR fragments were cloned into the pUCm-T vectors, and direct sequencing were carried out on an ABI 377-3 automated DNA sequencer to detect the mutation. PCR-restriction enzyme digestion was applied to detect the results of DNA sequencing. In two patients,de novo mutations led to an amino acid substitution. An A was replaced by a G in codon 38 upstream of the 5' border outside the HMG box of the SRY gene, resulting in the replacement of the amino acid glutamate by glycine. Another heterozygous T to A transition at the nucleotide position +387 which encodes for a Tyrosine (Tyr) instead of a Term, whereas her father was proven to have the wild-type sequence. These point mutations have been confirmed with PCR-restrict enzyme method. As demonstrated by the Human Gene Mutation Database analysis,homology search, and review of the literature, these two mutations were not described previously and brought the total number of SRY gene nucleotide substitutions (missense/nonsense) to 45. These findings indicated that these amino acid substitutions may be responsible for the sex reversal,not only inside the HMG-box but also outside the HMG-box. The two novel mutations in SRY gene provided valuable information for understanding the molecular mechanism of the patient with 46,XY female sex reversal.

16419642	A novel missense mutation, F826Y, in the mineralocorticoid receptor gene in Japanese hypertensives: its implications for clinical phenotypes. A gain-of-function mutation resulting in the S810L amino acid substitution in the hormone-binding domain of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR, locus symbol NR3C2) is responsible for early-onset hypertension that is exacerbated in pregnancy. The objective of this study was to test whether other types of missense mutations in the hormone-binding domain could be implicated in hypertension in Japanese. Here, we screened 942 Japanese patients with hypertension for the S810L mutation in exon 6 in the MR. We did not identify the S810L mutation in our hypertensive population, indicating that S810L does not play a major role in the etiology of essential hypertension in Japanese. However, we identified a novel missense mutation, F826Y, in three patients in a heterozygous state, in addition to four single nucleotide polymorphisms, including one synonymous mutation (L809L). The F826Y mutation is present in the MR hormone-binding domain and might affect the ligand affinity. The F826Y mutation was also identified in 13 individuals (5 hypertensives and 8 normotensives) in a Japanese general population (n=3,655). The allele frequency was 0.00178. The frequencies of the F826Y mutation in the hypertensive population (3/942) and in the hypertensive group (5/ 1,480) and the normotensive group (8/2,175) in the general population were not significantly different, suggesting that this mutation does not greatly affect hypertension. Although it is unclear at present whether or not the F826Y mutation makes a substantial contribution to the mineralocorticoid receptor activity, this missense mutation may contribute, to some extent, to clinical phenotypes through its effects on MR.

17943461	Myocardial Fas ligand expression increases susceptibility to AZT-induced cardiomyopathy. BACKGROUND: Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and myocarditis occur in many HIV-infected individuals, resulting in symptomatic heart failure in up to 5% of patients. Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly reduced morbidity and mortality of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), but has resulted in an increase in cardiac and skeletal myopathies. METHODS AND RESULTS: In order to investigate whether the HAART component zidovudine (3'-azido-2',3'-deoxythymidine; AZT) triggers the Fas-dependent cell-death pathway and cause cytoskeletal disruption in a murine model of DCM, 8-week-old transgenic (expressing Fas ligand in the myocardium: FasL Tg) and non-transgenic (NTg) mice received water ad libitum containing different concentrations of AZT (0, 0.07, 0.2, and 0.7 mg/ml). After 6 weeks, cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography and morphology was assessed by histopathologic and immunohistochemical methods. NTg and untreated FasL Tg mice showed little or no change in cardiac structure or function. In contrast, AZT-treated FasL Tg mice developed cardiac dilation and depressed cardiac function in a dose-dependent manner, with concomitant inflammatory infiltration of both ventricles. These changes were associated with an increased sarcolemmal expression of Fas and FasL, as well as increased activation of caspase 3, translocation of calpain 1 to the sarcolemma and sarcomere, and increased numbers of cells undergoing apoptosis. These were associated with changes in dystrophin and cardiac troponin I localization, as well as loss of sarcolemmal integrity. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of Fas ligand in the myocardium, as identified in HIV-positive patients, might increase the susceptibility to HAART-induced cardiomyopathy due to activation of apoptotic pathways, resulting in cardiac dilation and dysfunction.

21042587	Familial glucocorticoid receptor haploinsufficiency by non-sense mediated mRNA decay, adrenal hyperplasia and apparent mineralocorticoid excess. Primary glucocorticoid resistance (OMIM 138040) is a rare hereditary disease that causes a generalized partial insensitivity to glucocorticoid action, due to genetic alterations of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Investigation of adrenal incidentalomas led to the discovery of a family (eight affected individuals spanning three generations), prone to cortisol resistance, bilateral adrenal hyperplasia, arterial hypertension and hypokalemia. This phenotype exacerbated over time, cosegregates with the first heterozygous nonsense mutation p.R469[R,X] reported to date for the GR, replacing an arginine (CGA) by a stop (TGA) at amino-acid 469 in the second zinc finger of the DNA-binding domain of the receptor. In vitro, this mutation leads to a truncated 50-kDa GR lacking hormone and DNA binding capacity, devoid of hormone-dependent nuclear translocation and transactivation properties. In the proband's fibroblasts, we provided evidence for the lack of expression of the defective allele in vivo. The absence of detectable mutated GR mRNA was accompanied by a 50% reduction in wild type GR transcript and protein. This reduced GR expression leads to a significantly below-normal induction of glucocorticoid-induced target genes, FKBP5 in fibroblasts. We demonstrated that the molecular mechanisms of glucocorticoid signaling dysfunction involved GR haploinsufficiency due to the selective degradation of the mutated GR transcript through a nonsense-mediated mRNA Decay that was experimentally validated on emetine-treated propositus' fibroblasts. GR haploinsufficiency leads to hypertension due to illicit occupation of renal mineralocorticoid receptor by elevated cortisol rather than to increased mineralocorticoid production reported in primary glucocorticoid resistance. Indeed, apparent mineralocorticoid excess was demonstrated by a decrease in urinary tetrahydrocortisone-tetrahydrocortisol ratio in affected patients, revealing reduced glucocorticoid degradation by renal activity of the 11b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2, a GR regulated gene. We propose thus that GR haploinsufficiency compromises glucocorticoid sensitivity and may represent a novel genetic cause of subclinical hypercortisolism, incidentally revealed bilateral adrenal hyperplasia and mineralocorticoid-independent hypertension.

16051693	Polymorphism of the PEMT gene and susceptibility to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) catalyzes phosphatidylcholine synthesis. PEMT knockout mice have fatty livers, and it is possible that, in humans, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) might be associated with PEMT gene polymorphisms. DNA samples from 59 humans without fatty liver and from 28 humans with NAFLD were genotyped for a single nucleotide polymorphism in exon 8 of PEMT, which leads to a V175M substitution. V175M is a loss of function mutation, as determined by transiently transfecting McArdle-RH7777 cells with constructs of wild-type PEMT open reading frame or the V175M mutant. Met/Met at residue 175 (loss of function SNP) occurred in 67.9% of the NAFLD subjects and in only 40.7% of control subjects (P<0.03). For the first time we report that a polymorphism of the human PEMT gene (V175M) is associated with diminished activity and may confer susceptibility to NAFLD.

19880293	Polymorphisms in the FOXP3 gene in Han Chinese psoriasis patients. BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a common dermatological disorder, in which autoimmunity plays an important role. CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (T-regs) have been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of some autoimmune diseases. T-regs express the fork head/winged helix transcription factor, FOXP3, which appears to be of key importance in the development and function of T-regs. Studies have found that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the FOXP3 gene contribute to susceptibility to some autoimmune disorders. However, information about FOXP3 gene in psoriasis is limited. OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the association between FOXP3 gene SNPs and susceptibility to psoriasis in a Han Chinese population. METHODS: In a hospital-based case-control study, 524 patients with psoriasis and 549 psoriasis-free controls were recruited according to age and gender. We investigated four SNPs in the FOXP3 gene (-6054, deletion/ATT; -3279, A/C; -924, A/G; IVS9+459, A/G) in psoriatic patients, and assessed allele and genotype frequencies in psoriatic patients (237 females, 287 males) and normal controls (272 females, 277 males). The polymorphisms were genotyped using the PCR sequence-specific primer (PCR-SSP) technique and PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. RESULTS: We found that increased risk of psoriasis was associated with the FOXP3 -3279 AC genotype (adjusted OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.01-1.74) and the combined AC+AA genotype (adjusted OR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.07-1.78), compared with the -3279 CC genotype. We also found that an increased risk of psoriasis was associated with the FOXP3 IVS9+459 GG genotype (adjusted OR, 2.24; 95% CI, 1.41-3.58). However, the combined GA+GG genotype showed no such tendency (adjusted OR=1.28; 95% CI, 1.00-1.64), compared with the IVS9+459 AA genotype. There was no evidence of an increased risk associated with the FOXP3-6054 deletion/ATT or FOXP3-924 A/G genotype. In combined genotype analyses, the FOXP3-3279 AC+AA genotype was more obviously associated in males (adjusted OR=1.60, 95% CI=1.11-2.31) and severe psoriasis patients (PASI score >20; adjusted OR=1.97, 95% CI=1.41-2.75). Meanwhile, the FOXP3 IVS9+459 GA+GG genotype was also associated with severe psoriasis patients (adjusted OR=1.69, 95% CI=1.21-2.36). CONCLUSIONS: FOXP3 polymorphisms appear to contribute to the risk of psoriasis in a Han Chinese population. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings.

21903317	Autosomal dominant mutation in the signal peptide of renin in a kindred with anemia, hyperuricemia, and CKD. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in renin (REN) cause renal tubular dysgenesis, which is characterized by death in utero due to kidney failure and pulmonary hypoplasia. The phenotype resembles the fetopathy caused by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker intake during pregnancy. Recently, heterozygous REN mutations were shown to result in early-onset hyperuricemia, anemia, and chronic kidney disease (CKD). To date, only 3 different heterozygous REN mutations have been published. We report mutation analysis of the REN gene in 39 kindreds with hyperuricemia and CKD who previously tested negative for mutations in the UMOD (uromodulin) and HNF1B (hepatocyte nuclear factor 1b) genes. We identified one kindred with a novel thymidine to cytosine mutation at position 28 in the REN complementary DNA, corresponding to a tryptophan to arginine substitution at amino acid 10, which is found within the signal sequence (c.28T>C; p.W10R). On this basis, we conclude that REN mutations are rare events in patients with CKD. Within the kindred, we found affected individuals over 4 generations who carried the novel REN mutation and were characterized by significant anemia, hyperuricemia, and CKD. Anemia was severe and disproportional to the degree of decreased kidney function. Because all heterozygous REN mutations that have been described are localized in the signal sequence, screening of the REN gene for patients with CKD with hyperuricemia and anemia may best be focused on sequencing of exon 1, which encodes the signal peptide.

27103577	On the pivotal role of PPARa in adaptation of the heart to hypoxia and why fat in the diet increases hypoxic injury. The role of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor a (PPARa)-mediated metabolic remodeling in cardiac adaptation to hypoxia has yet to be defined. Here, mice were housed in hypoxia for 3 wk before in vivo contractile function was measured using cine MRI. In isolated, perfused hearts, energetics were measured using (31)P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), and glycolysis and fatty acid oxidation were measured using [(3)H] labeling. Compared with a normoxic, chow-fed control mouse heart, hypoxia decreased PPARa expression, fatty acid oxidation, and mitochondrial uncoupling protein 3 (UCP3) levels, while increasing glycolysis, all of which served to maintain normal ATP concentrations ([ATP]) and thereby, ejection fractions. A high-fat diet increased cardiac PPARa expression, fatty acid oxidation, and UCP3 levels with decreased glycolysis. Hypoxia was unable to alter the high PPARa expression or reverse the metabolic changes caused by the high-fat diet, with the result that [ATP] and contractile function decreased significantly. The adaptive metabolic changes caused by hypoxia in control mouse hearts were found to have occurred already in PPARa-deficient (PPARa(-/-)) mouse hearts and sustained function in hypoxia despite an inability for further metabolic remodeling. We conclude that decreased cardiac PPARa expression is essential for adaptive metabolic remodeling in hypoxia, but is prevented by dietary fat.-Cole, M. A., Abd Jamil, A. H., Heather, L. C., Murray, A. J., Sutton, E. R., Slingo, M., Sebag-Montefiore, L., Tan, S. C., Aksentijevic, D., Gildea, O. S., Stuckey, D. J., Yeoh, K. K., Carr, C. A., Evans, R. D., Aasum, E., Schofield, C. J., Ratcliffe, P. J., Neubauer, S., Robbins, P. A., Clarke, K. On the pivotal role of PPARa in adaptation of the heart to hypoxia and why fat in the diet increases hypoxic injury.

27491646	Gartanin induces cell cycle arrest and autophagy and suppresses migration involving PI3K/Akt/mTOR and MAPK signalling pathway in human glioma cells. In central nervous system, glioma is the most common primary brain tumour. The diffuse migration and rapid proliferation are main obstacles for successful treatment. Gartanin, a natural xanthone of mangosteen, suppressed proliferation, migration and colony formation in a time- and concentration-dependent manner in T98G glioma cells but not in mouse normal neuronal HT22 cells. Gartanin, at low micromole, led to cell cycle arrest in G1 phase accompanied by inhibited expression level of G1 cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin D1, while increased expression level of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1. In addition, the secretion and activity of matrix metalloproteinases 2/9 (MMP-2/-9) were significantly suppressed in T98G cells treated with gartanin, and it might result from modulating mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signalling pathway in T98G glioma cells. Moreover, gartanin significantly induced autophagy in T98G cells and increased GFP-LC3 punctate fluorescence accompanied by the increased expression level of Beclin 1 and LC3-II, while suppressed expression level of p62. Gartanin treatment resulted in obvious inhibition of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signalling pathway, which is important in modulating autophagy. Notably, gartanin-mediated anti-viability was significantly abrogated by autophagy inhibitors including 3-methyladenine (3-MA) and chloroquine (CQ). These results indicate that anti-proliferation effect of gartanin in T98G cells is most likely via cell cycle arrest modulated by autophagy, which is regulated by PI3K/Akt/mTOR signalling pathway, while anti-migration effect is most likely via suppression of MMP-2/-9 activity which is involved in MAPK signalling pathway.

16611040	Gene therapy for cystic fibrosis airway disease- is clinical success imminent? Cystic fibrosis (CF) was one of the first inherited disorders for which gene therapy was seriously considered as a realistic option for treatment, and as such, it has long provided a paradigm for gene therapy of inherited diseases. However, despite the cloning of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene in 1989, over 15 years later a practical gene therapy for CF has not eventuated. There are a number of reasons for this, and analysis of the specific issues that have delayed the successful development of gene therapy for CF also provides general insights into the practical complexities involved in the development of gene therapy for inherited disorders. The issues which have prevented the application of gene therapy for CF to date include the lack of suitable gene delivery technologies, the complexities of the interactions between the host and vector, the biology of the lung airways, and the nature of the pathology found in individuals with CF. We will discuss the history of CF gene therapy with specific reference to these and other issues that pre-occupy the field at present: namely, the question of what vectors appear to be suitable for airway gene delivery in CF, what cells must be targeted, how airway epithelium defences can be overcome or eluded to allow efficient gene delivery, how to ensure safe and long-term transgene expression and the need to identify relevant surrogate success measures that can be used to assess the outcome of gene therapy in CF patients.

17033974	Mutation in the auxiliary calcium-channel subunit CACNA2D4 causes autosomal recessive cone dystrophy. Retinal signal transmission depends on the activity of high voltage-gated l-type calcium channels in photoreceptor ribbon synapses. We recently identified a truncating frameshift mutation in the Cacna2d4 gene in a spontaneous mouse mutant with profound loss of retinal signaling and an abnormal morphology of ribbon synapses in rods and cones. The Cacna2d4 gene encodes an l-type calcium-channel auxiliary subunit of the alpha (2) delta type. Mutations in its human orthologue, CACNA2D4, were not yet known to be associated with a disease. We performed mutation analyses of 34 patients who received an initial diagnosis of night blindness, and, in two affected siblings, we detected a homozygous nucleotide substitution (c.2406C-->A) in CACNA2D4. The mutation introduces a premature stop codon that truncates one-third of the corresponding open reading frame. Both patients share symptoms of slowly progressing cone dystrophy. These findings represent the first report of a mutation in the human CACNA2D4 gene and define a novel gene defect that causes autosomal recessive cone dystrophy.

24014394	A homozygous mutation in LYRM7/MZM1L associated with early onset encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and severe reduction of mitochondrial complex III activity. Mutations in nuclear genes associated with defective complex III (cIII) of the mitochondrial respiratory chain are rare, having been found in only two cIII assembly factors and, as private changes in single families, three cIII structural subunits. Recently, human LYRM7/MZM1L, the ortholog of yeast MZM1, has been identified as a new assembly factor for cIII. In a baby patient with early onset, severe encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and profound, isolated cIII deficiency in skeletal muscle, we identified a disease-segregating homozygous mutation (c.73G>A) in LYRM7/MZM1L, predicting a drastic change in a highly conserved amino-acid residue (p.Asp25Asn). In a mzm1D yeast strain, the expression of a mzm1(D25N) mutant allele caused temperature-sensitive respiratory growth defect, decreased oxygen consumption, impaired maturation/stabilization of the Rieske Fe-S protein, and reduced complex III activity and amount. LYRM7/MZM1L is a novel disease gene, causing cIII-defective, early onset, severe mitochondrial encephalopathy.

15018851	Comparison of sequential cytomegalovirus isolates in a patient with lymphoma and failing antiviral therapy. BACKGROUND: Long-term anti-cytomegalovirus (CMV) treatments in immunocompromised patients are hampered by resistance to antiviral drugs. Longitudinal changes in the resistance genotype may depend on changes in selective pressure and the complexity of CMV isolates. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate longitudinal changes in the CMV resistance genotype and phenotype along with strain-specific variability in a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in whom successive anti-CMV treatments failed. STUDY DESIGN: The resistance phenotype and genotype of seven CMV isolates collected from one patient during a 2-year follow-up period were retrospectively analysed. In parallel, we used glycoprotein B (gB) genotyping, and a- and UL10-13-sequence analysis to study CMV interstrain variability. RESULTS: The patient was infected by at least three CMV strains plus variants of the parental strains. Resistance to ganciclovir, cidofovir and foscarnet was successively detected during the follow-up period. UL97 protein kinase changes responsible for resistance to ganciclovir were initially detected at residues 591 and 592, and then at position 594. Decreased sensitivity to foscarnet coincided with the appearance of amino acid substitution N495K in DNA polymerase, whereas cross-resistance to ganciclovir and cidofovir was due to the L501I substitution. CONCLUSIONS: The CMV isolates obtained from our patient were complex mixtures of strains. Changes in resistance genotypes depended on resistance selective pressure and were not linked to interstrain variation.

17671735	Coincidence of mutations in different connexin genes in Hungarian patients. Mutations in the GJB2 gene are the most common cause of hereditary prelingual sensorineural hearing impairment in Europe. Several studies indicate that different members of the connexin protein family interact to form gap junctions in the inner ear. Mutations in different connexin genes may accumulate and, consequently lead to hearing impairment. Therefore, we screened 47 Hungarian GJB2- heterozygous (one mutation in coding exon of the GJB2 gene) patients with hearing impairment for DNA changes in two further connexin genes (GJB6 and GJB3) and in the 5' non-coding region of GJB2 including the splice sites. Eleven out of 47 GJB2-heterozygous patients analyzed carried the splice site mutation -3170G>A in the 5'UTR region of GJB2. One out of these 11 patients showed homozygous -3170G>A genotype in combination with p.R127H. Next to the GJB2 mutations we noted 2 cases of deletion in GJB6 [Delta(GJB6-D13S1830)] and 3 (2 new and 1 described) base substitutions in GJB3 [c.357C>T, c.798C>T and c.94C>T (p.R32W)] which are unlikely disease-causing. Our results suggest the importance of routine screening for the rather frequent -3170G>A mutation (in addition to c.35delG) in patients with hearing impairment.

28518143	Calcium sensing receptor protects high glucose-induced energy metabolism disorder via blocking gp78-ubiquitin proteasome pathway. Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major complication and fatal cause of the patients with diabetes. The calcium sensing receptor (CaSR) is a G protein-coupled receptor, which is involved in maintaining calcium homeostasis, regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis, and so on. In our previous study, we found that CaSR expression, intracellular calcium levels and cardiac function were all significantly decreased in DCM rats; however, the exact mechanism are not clear yet. The present study revealed the protective role of CaSR in myocardial energy metabolism disorder induced by high glucose (HG) as well as the underlying mechanism. Here, we demonstrated that HG decreased the expression of CaSR, mitochondrial fusion proteins (Mfn1, Mfn2), cell gap junction related proteins (Cx43, beta-catenin, N-cadherin), and intracellular ATP concentration. In contrast, HG increased extracellular ATP concentration, the expression of gp78, mitochondrial fission proteins (Fis1, Drp1), and the ubiquitination levels of Mfn1, Mfn2 and Cx43. Moreover, CaSR agonist and gp78-siRNA significantly reduced the above changes. Taken together, these results suggest that HG induces myocardial energy metabolism disorder via decrease of CaSR expression, and activation of gp78-ubiquitin proteasome system. In turn, these effects disrupt the structure and function of the mitochondria and the cell gap junction, result in the reduced ATP synthesis and the increased ATP leakage. Stimulation of CaSR significantly attenuates HG-induced abnormal myocardial energy metabolism, suggesting CaSR would be a promising potential therapeutic target for DCM.

17600377	A novel compound, maltolyl p-coumarate, attenuates cognitive deficits and shows neuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo dementia models. To develop a novel and effective drug that could enhance cognitive function and neuroprotection, we newly synthesized maltolyl p-coumarate by the esterification of maltol and p-coumaric acid. In the present study, we investigated whether maltolyl p-coumarate could improve cognitive decline in scopolamine-injected rats and in amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Maltolyl p-coumarate was found to attenuate cognitive deficits in both rat models using passive avoidance test and to reduce apoptotic cell death observed in the hippocampus of the amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. We also examined the neuroprotective effects of maltolyl p-coumarate in vitro using SH-SY5Y cells. Cells were pretreated with maltolyl p-coumarate, before exposed to amyloid beta peptide(1-42), glutamate or H2O2. We found that maltolyl p-coumarate significantly decreased apoptotic cell death and reduced reactive oxygen species, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation. Taking these in vitro and in vivo results together, our study suggests that maltolyl p-coumarate is a potentially effective candidate against Alzheimer's disease that is characterized by wide spread neuronal death and progressive decline of cognitive function.

16181814	Mono-allelic POLG expression resulting from nonsense-mediated decay and alternative splicing in a patient with Alpers syndrome. Alpers syndrome is an autosomal recessive mitochondrial DNA depletion disorder that affects children and young adults. It is characterized by a progressive, fatal brain and liver disease. This syndrome has been associated with mutations in POLG, the gene encoding the mitochondrial DNA polymerase (pol gamma). Most patients with Alpers syndrome have been found to be compound heterozygotes, carrying two pathogenic mutations in trans at the POLG locus. POLG is a nuclear-encoded gene whose protein product is imported into mitochondria, where it is essential for mtDNA replication and repair. We studied the skin fibroblasts of a patient with Alpers syndrome having the genotype E873stop/A467T. The E873stop mutation produces a premature termination codon (TAG) in exon 17. The A467T mutation produces a threonine to alanine substitution at a highly conserved site in exon 7. The allele bearing the stop codon (E873-TAG) is predicted to produce a truncated, catalytically inactive polymerase. However, only full-length pol gamma protein was detected by Western blot analysis. Here, we show that transcripts containing this stop codon undergo nonsense-associated alternative splicing and nonsense-mediated decay. More than 95% of the functional POLG mRNA was derived from the allele bearing the A467T mutation and less than 5% contained the E873stop mutation. These events ensured that virtually all POLG protein in the cell was expressed from the A467T allele. Therefore, the Alpers phenotype in this patient was a consequence of a single-copy gene dose of the A467T allele, and selective elimination of transcripts bearing the E873stop mutation.

20143913	Large deletion involving exon 5 of the arylsulfatase B gene caused apparent homozygosity in a mucopolysaccharidosis type VI patient. Apparent homozygosity for the mutation p.R315X present on exon 5 of the arylsulfatase B (ARSB) gene in a mucopolysaccharidosis type VI patient was solved in this study by further testing for a second mutation. Patient cDNA analysis revealed that the entire exon 5 of the ARSB gene was lacking; this new mutation was identified as c.899-1142del. As the genomic DNA sequencing excluded the presence of splicing mutations, polymerase chain reaction analysis was performed for polymorphisms listed in the NCBI SNP database for the ARSB gene. This allowed the mutation at the genomic DNA level to be identified as g.99367-102002del; this gross deletion, involving the entire exon 5 of the gene and parts of introns 4 and 5 led to a frameshift starting at amino acid 300 and resulting in a protein with 39% amino acids different from the normal enzyme. We stress that extensive DNA analysis needs to be performed in case of apparent homozygosity to avoid potential errors in genetic counseling.

15579441	Hypoxia in renal disease with proteinuria and/or glomerular hypertension. Despite the increasing need to identify and quantify tissue oxygenation at the cellular level, relatively few methods have been available. In this study, we developed a new hypoxia-responsive reporter vector using a hypoxia-responsive element of the 5' vascular endothelial growth factor untranslated region and generated a novel hypoxia-sensing transgenic rat. We then applied this animal model to the detection of tubulointerstitial hypoxia in the diseased kidney. With this model, we were able to identify diffuse cortical hypoxia in the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome and focal and segmental hypoxia in the remnant kidney model. Expression of the hypoxia-responsive transgene increased throughout the observation period, reaching 2.2-fold at 2 weeks in the puromycin aminonucleoside model and 2.6-fold at 4 weeks in the remnant kidney model, whereas that of vascular endothelial growth factor showed a mild decrease, reflecting distinct behaviors of the two genes. The degree of hypoxia showed a positive correlation with microscopic tubulointerstitial injury in both models. Finally, we identified the localization of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive, ED-1-positive, and terminal dUTP nick-end labeled-positive cells in the hypoxic cortical area in the remnant kidney model. We propose here a possible pathological tie between chronic tubulointerstitial hypoxia and progressive glomerular diseases.

15754732	Novel somatic MEN1 gene alterations in sporadic primary hyperparathyroidism and correlation with clinical characteristics. Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is a common endocrine disease that in more than 95% of cases is sporadic and only in some cases is caused by inherited disorders, isolated or as part of multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN1 and 2). Somatic mutations of MEN1 gene have also been described in sporadic parathyroid tumors. In our study, we examined the presence of alterations in MEN1 gene in a series of 39 patients who had undergone surgery for sporadic pHPT (35 with parathyroid adenoma or hyperplasia, 4 with a carcinoma). A genotype-phenotype correlation was also analysed. After DNA extraction from paraffin-embedded tissues, we amplified by PCR and sequenced the exons 2-10 of the MEN1 gene. Somatic MEN1 mutations were detected in 6 of the 35 patients with a benign parathyroid lesion examined (17.1%), whereas no alterations were found in the carcinomas. Four novel MEN1 gene mutations were identified as follows: one frameshift mutation (222insT, exon 2), one frameshift deletion (912delTA, exon 5), one in-frame deletion (835del18, exon 4) and one missense mutation (P291A, exon 6). In addition, one missense mutation (L89R, exon 2) and one nonsense mutation (Q536X, exon 10) were previously reported. Moreover, two polymorphisms were also found: one allele carried a R171Q polymorphism (1/39 tumors), while a D418D polymorphism (GAC/GAT) was found in 15 and 8 tumors in hetero (CT) and homozygosity (TT), respectively. In no case (mutations and/or polymorphisms) did we find a genotype-phenotype correlation. In conclusion, our data demonstrate the presence of somatic alterations of the MEN1 tumor suppressor gene in about one fifth of benign sporadic parathyroid tumors. The absence of a genotype-phenotype correlation, however, suggests the involvement of other genetic/epigenetic factors for the full expression of the disease.

18385794	Identification of novel mutations and sequence variants in the SOX2 and CHX10 genes in patients with anophthalmia/microphthalmia. PURPOSE: Mutations in the SOX2 and CHX10 genes have been reported in patients with anophthalmia and/or microphthalmia. In this study, we evaluated 34 anophthalmic/microphthalmic patient DNA samples (two sets of siblings included) for mutations and sequence variants in SOX2 and CHX10. METHODS: Conformational sensitive gel electrophoresis (CSGE) was used for the initial SOX2 and CHX10 screening of 34 affected individuals (two sets of siblings), five unaffected family members, and 80 healthy controls. Patient samples containing heteroduplexes were selected for sequence analysis. Base pair changes in SOX2 and CHX10 were confirmed by sequencing bidirectionally in patient samples. RESULTS: Two novel heterozygous mutations and two sequence variants (one known) in SOX2 were identified in this cohort. Mutation c.310 G>T (p. Glu104X), found in one patient, was in the region encoding the high mobility group (HMG) DNA-binding domain and resulted in a change from glutamic acid to a stop codon. The second mutation, noted in two affected siblings, was a single nucleotide deletion c.549delC (p. Pro184ArgfsX19) in the region encoding the activation domain, resulting in a frameshift and premature termination of the coding sequence. The shortened protein products may result in the loss of function. In addition, a novel nucleotide substitution c.*557G>A was identified in the 3'-untranslated region in one patient. The relationship between the nucleotide change and the protein function is indeterminate. A known single nucleotide polymorphism (c. *469 C>A, SNP rs11915160) was also detected in 2 of the 34 patients. Screening of CHX10 identified two synonymous sequence variants, c.471 C>T (p.Ser157Ser, rs35435463) and c.579 G>A (p. Gln193Gln, novel SNP), and one non-synonymous sequence variant, c.871 G>A (p. Asp291Asn, novel SNP). The non-synonymous polymorphism was also present in healthy controls, suggesting non-causality. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the role of SOX2 in ocular development. Loss of SOX2 function results in severe eye malformation. CHX10 was not implicated with microphthalmia/anophthalmia in our patient cohort.

25589620	Pharmacogenetic Analysis of INT 0144 Trial: Association of Polymorphisms with Survival and Toxicity in Rectal Cancer Patients Treated with 5-FU and Radiation. PURPOSE: We tested whether 18 polymorphisms in 16 genes (GSTP1, COX2, IL10, EGFR, EGF, FGFR4, CCDN1, VEGFR2, VEGF, CXCR2, IL8, MMP3, ICAM1, ERCC1, RAD51, and XRCC3) would predict disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), and toxicity in the INT0144 trial, which was designed to investigate different postoperative regimens of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemoradiation (CRT) in locally advanced rectal cancers: Arm 1 consisted of bolus 5-FU followed by 5-FU protracted venous infusion (PVI) with radiotherapy; arm 2 was induction and concomitant PVI 5-FU with radiotherapy and arm 3 was induction and concomitant bolus 5-FU with radiotherapy. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: DNA from 746 stage II/III rectal patients enrolled in the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) S9304 phase III trial was analyzed. Genomic DNA was extracted from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue. The polymorphisms were analyzed using direct DNA-sequencing or polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). RESULTS: GSTP1-Ile105Val (rs1695) was significantly associated with DFS and OS and its effect did not vary by treatment arm. The five-year DFS and OS were 53% and 58%, respectively, for G/G, 66% and 72% for G/A, and 57% and 66% for A/A patients. In arm 2, IL8-251A/A genotype (rs4073) was associated with a lower risk of toxicities (P = 0.04). The VEGFR2 H472Q Q/Q genotype (rs1870377) was associated with a higher risk of grade 3-5 proximal upper gastrointestinal tract (PUGIT) mucositis (P = 0.04) in arm 2. However, in arm 1, this genotype was associated with a lower risk of PUGIT mucositis (P = 0.004). CONCLUSION: rs1695 may be prognostic in patients with rectal cancer treated with adjuvant CRT. rs4073 and rs1870377 may exhibit different associations with toxicity, according to the 5-FU schedule.

15086325	Identification of three F5 gene mutations associated with inherited coagulation factor V deficiency in two Chinese pedigrees. To investigate the molecular defects in two Chinese pedigrees with inherited factor V (FV) deficiency. A 37-year-old male (proband 1) and an 18-month-old boy (proband 2) were diagnosed as inherited coagulation FV deficiency by severely reduced plasma levels of FV activity and antigen. All 25 exons and their flanking sequence of F5 gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for both probands and the PCR products were directly sequenced. Total RNA was extracted from the peripheral lymphocytes of proband 1 for detecting the changes at mRNA level. The homozygous deletion IVS8 -2A>G was identified in the F5 gene of proband 1 and complementary DNA (cDNA) analysis revealed the abolishment of the canonical splicing site by the mutation and the activation of the cryptic acceptor site 24 bp upstream instead. The insertion introduced eight additional amino acids (AA) into the FV protein. Two heterozygous mutations of F5 gene were discovered in proband 2. The 2238-9del AG in exon 13 introduced a premature termination code at 689 AA and the substitution of G6410 by T in exon 23 lead to the missense mutation Gly2079Val. Three F5 gene mutations, IVS8 -2A>G, 2238-9del AG and G6410T, have been identified in two Chinese pedigree with congenital FV deficiency, respectively.

19300402	Bradykinin receptors antagonists and nitric oxide synthase inhibitors in vincristine and streptozotocin induced hyperalgesia in chemotherapy and diabetic neuropathy rat model. PURPOSE: The influence of an irreversible inhibitor of constitutive NO synthase (L-NOArg; 1.0 mg/kg ip), a relatively selective inhibitor of inducible NO synthase (L-NIL; 1.0 mg/kg ip) and a relatively specific inhibitor of neuronal NO synthase (7-NI; 0.1 mg/kg ip), on antihyperalgesic action of selective antagonists of B2 and B1 receptors: D-Arg-[Hyp3,Thi5,D-Tic7,Oic8] bradykinin (HOE 140; 70 nmol/kg ip) or des Arg10 HOE 140 (70 nmol/kg ip) respectively, in model of diabetic (streptozotocin-induced) and toxic (vincristine-induced) neuropathy was investigated. METHODS: The changes in pain thresholds were determined using mechanical stimuli--the modification of the classic paw withdrawal test described by Randall-Selitto. RESULTS: The results of this paper confirm that inhibition of bradykinin receptors and inducible NO synthase but not neuronal NO synthase activity reduces diabetic hyperalgesia. Pretreatment with L-NOArg and L-NIL but not 7-NI, significantly increases antihyperalgesic activity both HOE 140 and des Arg10 HOE 140. It was also shown that both products of inducible NO synthase and neuronal NO synthase activation as well as bradykinin are involved in hyperalgesia produced by vincristine. Moreover, L-NOArg and 7-NI but not L-NIL intensify antihyperalgesic activity of HOE 140 or des-Arg10HOE 140 in toxic neuropathy. CONCLUSIONS: Results of these studies suggest that B1 and B2 receptors are engaged in transmission of nociceptive stimuli in both diabetic and toxic neuropathy. In streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, inducible NO synthase participates in pronociceptive activity of bradykinin, whereas in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia bradykinin seemed to activate neuronal NO synthase pathway. Therefore, concomitant administration of small doses of bradykinin receptor antagonists and NO synthase inhibitors can be effective in alleviation of neuropathic pain, even in hospital care.

24288432	Association of a FGFR-4 gene polymorphism with bronchopulmonary dysplasia and neonatal respiratory distress. BACKGROUND: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is the most common chronic lung disease of premature birth, characterized by impaired alveolar development and inflammation. Pathomechanisms contributing to BPD are poorly understood. However, it is assumed that genetic factors predispose to BPD and other pulmonary diseases of preterm neonates, such as neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). For association studies, genes upregulated during alveolarization are major candidates for genetic analysis, for example, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors (FGFR). OBJECTIVE: Determining genetic risk variants in a Caucasian population of premature neonates with BPD and RDS. Methods. We genotyped 27 polymorphisms within 14 candidate genes via restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP): MMP-1, -2, -9, and -12, -16, FGF receptors 2 and 4, FGF-2, -3, -4, -7, and -18, Signal-Regulatory Protein a (SIRPA) and Thyroid Transcription Factor-1 (TTF-1). RESULTS: Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MMP-9, MMP-12, FGFR-4, FGF-3, and FGF-7 are associated (P < 0.05) with RDS, defined as surfactant application within the first 24 hours after birth. One of them, in FGFR-4 (rs1966265), is associated with both RDS (P = 0.003) and BPD (P = 0.023). CONCLUSION: rs1966265 in FGF receptor 4 is a possible genetic key variant in alveolar diseases of preterm newborns.

28259923	Pleomorphic adenoma gene like-2 induces epithelial-mesenchymal transition via Wnt/b-catenin signaling pathway in human colorectal adenocarcinoma. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a critical step in the acquisition of metastatic and invasive power for tumor cells. Colorectal adenocarcinoma (CRC) is a common cancer where metastasis is directly linked to patient survival. Recent studies show that pleomorphic adenoma gene like-2 (PLAGL2) could induce tumor EMT and is an independent predictive factor associated with poor prognosis in cancer. In the present study, we confirmed the role of PLAGL2 in the prognosis of CRC patients and provide molecular evidence of PLAGL2 promoted EMT in CRC cell line SW480. We found that PLAGL2 expression was upregulated in the paraffin-embedded CRC tissues compared to borderline or benign tissues. Experimental EMT induced by PLAGL2 plasmid transfection proved PLAGL2 protein overexpression could enhance the cell scratch wound-healing and transwell ability and significantly upregulated mesenchymal marker proteins, N-cadherin and vimentin and concurrently downregulated epithelial marker of E-cadherin. Subsequently, through western blot assay, we found that PLAGL2 could activate the wnt-signaling component b-catenin in the nuclei. More CRC cell metastasis to the lungs was observed when the PLAGL2 overexpressing SW480 cells were injected into the tail vein of rats, compared with the cell control and PLAGL2 silence group. Our findings indicated that PLAGL2 might be a very upstream key molecule regulating EMT involved in Wnt/b-catenin signaling pathway.

16000134	Successful therapy with argatroban for superior mesenteric vein thrombosis in a patient with congenital antithrombin deficiency. A 38-year-old woman was admitted with superior mesenteric vein (SMV) thrombosis, which was refractory to anticoagulation therapy. The plasma antithrombin activity was decreased and hardly compensated by concentrated antithrombin preparation due to high consumption rate. However, successful anticoagulation was achieved by administration of direct thrombin inhibitor, argatroban. Family studies of antithrombin activity revealed that she had type I congenital antithrombin deficiency. A novel heterozygous mutation in the gene for antithrombin (single nucleotide T insertion at 7916 and 7917, Glu 272 to stop in exon 4) was identified. Argatroban administration would be effective in the treatment of congenital antithrombin deficiency with SMV thrombosis.

16225977	Amisulpride related tic-like symptoms in an adolescent schizophrenic. Tic disorders can be effectively treated by atypical antipsychotics such as risperidone, olanzapine and ziprasidone. However, there are two case reports that show tic-like symptoms, including motor and phonic variants, occurring during treatment with quetiapine or clozapine. We present a 15-year-old girl schizophrenic who developed frequent involuntary eye-blinking movements after 5 months of amisulpride treatment (1000 mg per day). The tic-like symptoms resolved completely after we reduced the dose of amisulpride down to 800 mg per day. However, her psychosis recurred after the dose reduction. We then placed her on an additional 100 mg per day of quetiapine. She has been in complete remission under the combined medications for more than one year and maintains a fair role function. No more tic-like symptoms or other side effects have been reported. Together with previously reported cases, our patient suggests that tic-like symptoms might occur in certain vulnerable individuals during treatment with atypical antipsychotics such as quetiapine, clozapine, or amisulpride.

20859899	Syncope caused by hyperkalemia during use of a combined therapy with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and spironolactone. A 76 year-old woman with a history of coronary artery bypass grafting and prior myocardial infarction was transferred to the emergency room with loss of consciousness due to marked bradycardia caused by hyperkalemia. The concentration of serum potassium was high, and normal sinus rhythm was restored after correction of the serum potassium level. The cause of hyperkalemia was considered to be several doses of spiranolactone, an aldosterone antagonist, in addition to the long-term intake of ramipril, an ACE inhibitor. This case is a good example of electrolyte imbalance causing acute life-threatening cardiac events. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients using ACE/ARB in combination with potassium sparing agents and who have mild renal disturbance.

15041272	A first Taiwanese Chinese family of type 2B von Willebrand disease with R1306W mutation. Clinical, laboratory and genetic defect of a Taiwanese family with type 2B von Willebrand disease (VWD) were studied. The proband was a 55-year-old woman who gave birth to two daughters and one son aged 30, 29 and 27, respectively. All had abnormal mucocutaneous bleedings since their childhood. In proband, PT, PTT and platelet count were normal; template bleeding time was 14 min; VIII:C was 51%, von Willebrand factor antigen (VWF:Ag), 42% and von Willerand factor ristocetin-cofactor (VWF:RCo, 15%); ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation (RIPA) at 0.3 and 0.6 mg/ml of ristocetin was 16% and 68%, respectively. The enhanced response to ristocetin was identified to be in plasma, not in platelet itself, by mixing studies. Analysis of von Willebrand factor (VWF) multimer of plasma but not of platelets showed absence of high-molecular weight (HMW) multimer. All three children had similar laboratory findings. Exon 28 of VWF gene was amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced. The proband and three children were all found to be heterozygous for C to T transition at nucleotide 3916 resulting in Arg 1306 Trp (R1306W) substitution. This mutation in the glycoprotein Ib (GPIb)-binding site has been found to increase the affinity of plasma VWF for platelets, and thus cause loss of HMW multimers and often thrombocytopenia. In conclusion, a first report of type 2B VWD in a Taiwanese Chinese family who show R1306W mutation in VWF gene was described.

17395743	Identification of PVT1 as a candidate gene for end-stage renal disease in type 2 diabetes using a pooling-based genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism association study. To identify genetic variants contributing to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in type 2 diabetes, we performed a genome-wide analysis of 115,352 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in pools of 105 unrelated case subjects with ESRD and 102 unrelated control subjects who have had type 2 diabetes for > or =10 years without macroalbuminuria. Using a sliding window statistic of ranked SNPs, we identified a 200-kb region on 8q24 harboring three SNPs showing substantial differences in allelic frequency between case and control pools. These SNPs were genotyped in individuals comprising each pool, and strong evidence for association was found with rs2720709 (P = 0.000021; odds ratio 2.57 [95% CI 1.66-3.96]), which is located in the plasmacytoma variant translocation gene PVT1. We sequenced all exons, exon-intron boundaries, and the promoter of PVT1 and identified 47 variants, 11 of which represented nonredundant markers with minor allele frequency > or =0.05. We subsequently genotyped these 11 variants and an additional 87 SNPs identified through public databases in 319-kb flanking rs2720709 ( approximately 1 SNP/3.5 kb); 23 markers were associated with ESRD at P < 0.01. The strongest evidence for association was found for rs2648875 (P = 0.0000018; 2.97 [1.90-4.65]), which maps to intron 8 of PVT1. Together, these results suggest that PVT1 may contribute to ESRD susceptibility in diabetes.

27729412	Reduced adiponectin expression after high-fat diet is associated with selective up-regulation of ALDH1A1 and further retinoic acid receptor signaling in adipose tissue. Adiponectin is an adipocyte-derived adipokine with potent antidiabetic, anti-inflammatory, and antiatherogenic activity. Long-term, high-fat diet results in gain of body weight, adiposity, further inflammatory-based cardiovascular diseases, and reduced adiponectin secretion. Vitamin A derivatives/retinoids are involved in several of these processes, which mainly take place in white adipose tissue (WAT). In this study, we examined adiponectin expression as a function of dietary high-fat and high-vitamin A conditions in mice. A decrease of adiponectin expression in addition to an up-regulation of aldehyde dehydrogenase A1 (ALDH1A1), retinoid signaling, and retinoic acid response element signaling was selectively observed in WAT of mice fed a normal-vitamin A, high-fat diet. Reduced adiponectin expression in WAT was also observed in mice fed a high-vitamin A diet. Adipocyte cell culture revealed that endogenous and synthetic retinoic acid receptor (RAR)a- and RARg-selective agonists, as well as a synthetic retinoid X receptor agonist, efficiently reduced adiponectin expression, whereas ALDH1A1 expression only increased with RAR agonists. We conclude that reduced adiponectin expression under high-fat dietary conditions is dependent on 1) increased ALDH1A1 expression in adipocytes, which does not increase all-trans-retinoic acid levels; 2) further RAR ligand-induced, WAT-selective, increased retinoic acid response element-mediated signaling; and 3) RAR ligand-dependent reduction of adiponectin expression.-Landrier, J.-F., Kasiri, E., Karkeni, E., Mihaly, J., Beke, G., Weiss, K., Lucas, R., Aydemir, G., Salles, J., Walrand, S., de Lera, A. R., Ruhl, R. Reduced adiponectin expression after high-fat diet is associated with selective up-regulation of ALDH1A1 and further retinoic acid receptor signaling in adipose tissue.

29183288	Arginase 1 deletion in myeloid cells affects the inflammatory response in allergic asthma, but not lung mechanics, in female mice. BACKGROUND: (Over-)expression of arginase may limit local availability of arginine for nitric oxide synthesis. We investigated the significance of arginase1 (ARG1) for the development of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and lung inflammation in female mice with ovalbumin (OVA)-induced allergic asthma. METHODS: Arg1 was ablated in the lung by crossing Arg1 fl/fl and Tie2Cre tg/- mice. OVA sensitization and challenge were conducted, and AHR to methacholine was determined using the Flexivent system. Changes in gene expression, chemokine and cytokine secretion, plasma IgE, and lung histology were quantified using RT-qPCR, ELISA, and immunohistochemistry, respectively. RESULTS: Arg1 ablation had no influence on the development of OVA-induced AHR, but attenuated OVA-induced increases in expression of Arg2 and Nos2, Slc7a1, Slc7a2, and Slc7a7 (arginine transporters), Il4, Il5 and Il13 (TH2-type cytokines), Ccl2 and Ccl11 (chemokines), Ifng (TH1-type cytokine), Clca3 and Muc5ac (goblet cell markers), and OVA-specific IgE. Pulmonary IL-10 protein content increased, but IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, TNFalpha and IFNgamma content, and lung histopathology, were not affected. Arg1 elimination also decreased number and tightness of correlations between adaptive changes in lung function and inflammatory parameters in OVA/OVA-treated female mice. OVA/OVA-treated female mice mounted a higher OVA-IgE response than males, but the correlation between lung function and inflammation was lower. Arg1-deficient OVA/OVA-treated females differed from males in a more pronounced decline of arginine-metabolizing and -transporting genes, higher plasma arginine levels, a smaller OVA-specific IgE response, and no improvement of peripheral lung function. CONCLUSION: Complete ablation of Arg1 in the lung affects mRNA abundance of arginine-transporting and -metabolizing genes, and pro-inflammatory genes, but not methacholine responsiveness or accumulation of inflammatory cells.

20959502	Cerebrospinal fluid penetration of high-dose daptomycin in suspected Staphylococcus aureus meningitis. OBJECTIVE: To report a case of methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) bacteremia with suspected MSSA meningitis treated with high-dose daptomycin assessed with concurrent serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations. CASE SUMMARY: A 54-year-old male presented to the emergency department with generalized weakness and presumed health-care-associated pneumonia shown on chest radiograph. Treatment was empirically initiated with vancomycin, levofloxacin, and piperacillin/tazobactam. Blood cultures revealed S. aureus susceptible to oxacillin. Empiric antibiotic treatment was narrowed to nafcillin on day 4. On day 8, the patient developed acute renal failure (serum creatinine 1.9 mg/dL, increased from 1.2 mg/dL the previous day and 0.8 mg/dL on admission). The patient's Glasgow Coma Score was 3, with normal findings shown on computed tomography scan of the head 72 hours following an episode of cardiac arrest on day 10. The patient experienced relapsing MSSA bacteremia on day 9, increasing the suspicion for a central nervous system (CNS) infection. Nafcillin was discontinued and daptomycin 9 mg/kg daily was initiated for suspected meningitis and was continued until the patient's death on day 16. Daptomycin serum and CSF trough concentrations were 11.21 ug/mL and 0.52 ug/mL, respectively, prior to the third dose. Lumbar puncture results were inconclusive and no further blood cultures were positive for MSSA. Creatine kinase levels were normal prior to daptomycin therapy and were not reassessed. DISCUSSION: Daptomycin was initiated in our patient secondary to possible nafcillin-induced acute interstitial nephritis and relapsing bacteremia. At a dose of 9 mg/kg, resultant penetration of 5% was higher than in previous reports, more consistent with inflamed meninges. CONCLUSIONS: High-dose daptomycin may be an alternative option for MSSA bacteremia with or without a CNS source in patients who have failed or cannot tolerate standard therapy. Further clinical evaluation in patients with confirmed meningitis is warranted.

20682662	Lack of association of C-C chemokine receptor 5 DD32 deletion status with rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, lupus nephritis, and disease severity. OBJECTIVE: C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) plays an important role in inflammation. A 32 base-pair (DD32) deletion in the CCR5 gene leads to a nonfunctional receptor. This deletion has been reported to have a protective effect on the development and progression of several autoimmune diseases. We investigated whether the DD32 deletion is associated with disease susceptibility in a population of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and lupus nephritis (LN); and whether it is associated with disease severity. METHODS: DNA samples from 405 RA patients, 97 SLE patients, 113 LN patients, and 431 healthy controls were genotyped for the CCR5 DD32 deletion. Differences in genotype frequencies were tested between patients and controls. Association of genotypes with disease severity was analyzed. RESULTS: Genotype frequencies of each group were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The genotype frequencies of patients did not differ significantly from controls (CCR5/DD32, DD32/DD32: RA 18.3% and 1.2%, respectively; SLE 17.5% and 2.1%; LN 13.3% and 1.8%; controls 20.0% and 2.8%). However, there was a trend for lower DD32 deletion allele frequency in LN patients compared to controls (p = 0.08). There was no significant association between the CCR5 status and disease severity in RA, SLE, or LN. CONCLUSION: Although an association with LN cannot be excluded, the CCR5 DD32 deletion does not seem to be a disease susceptibility genotype for RA, SLE, or LN. No significant effect of the DD32 deletion on disease severity was demonstrated.

23285048	Context- and cell-dependent effects of Delta-like 4 targeting in the bone marrow microenvironment. Delta-like 4 (Dll4) is a ligand of the Notch pathway family which has been widely studied in the context of tumor angiogenesis, its blockade shown to result in non-productive angiogenesis and halted tumor growth. As Dll4 inhibitors enter the clinic, there is an emerging need to understand their side effects, namely the systemic consequences of Dll4:Notch blockade in tissues other than tumors. The present study focused on the effects of systemic anti-Dll4 targeting in the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment. Here we show that Dll4 blockade with monoclonal antibodies perturbs the BM vascular niche of sub-lethally irradiated mice, resulting in increased CD31(+), VE-Cadherin(+) and c-kit(+) vessel density, and also increased megakaryocytes, whereas CD105(+), VEGFR3(+), SMA(+) and lectin(+) vessel density remained unaltered. We investigated also the expression of angiocrine genes upon Dll4 treatment in vivo, and demonstrate that IGFbp2, IGFbp3, Angpt2, Dll4, DHH and VEGF-A are upregulated, while FGF1 and CSF2 are reduced. In vitro treatment of endothelial cells with anti-Dll4 reduced Akt phosphorylation while maintaining similar levels of Erk 1/2 phosphorylation. Besides its effects in the BM vascular niche, anti-Dll4 treatment perturbed hematopoiesis, as evidenced by increased myeloid (CD11b(+)), decreased B (B220(+)) and T (CD3(+)) lymphoid BM content of treated mice, with a corresponding increase in myeloid circulating cells. Moreover, anti-Dll4 treatment also increased the number of CFU-M and -G colonies in methylcellulose assays, independently of Notch1. Finally, anti-Dll4 treatment of donor BM improved the hematopoietic recovery of lethally irradiated recipients in a transplant setting. Together, our data reveals the hematopoietic (BM) effects of systemic anti-Dll4 treatment result from qualitative vascular changes and also direct hematopoietic cell modulation, which may be favorable in a transplant setting.

27663860	Role of angiotensin II type 1a receptor in renal injury induced by deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension. The aim of this study was to investigate the in vivo role of angiotensin II type 1a (AT1a) receptor in renal damage as a result of hypertension by using transgenic mice with AT1a receptor gene disruption. Transgenic mice that express human liver-type fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP) with or without disruption of the AT1a receptor gene (L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(-/-), and L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(+/+), respectively) were used with urinary L-FABP as an indicator of tubulointerstitial damage. Those female mice were administered subcutaneously deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt tablets plus drinking water that contained 1% saline for 28 d after uninephrectomy. In L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(+/+) mice that received DOCA-salt treatment, hypertension was induced and slight expansion of glomerular area, glomerular sclerosis, and tubulointerstitial damage were observed. In L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(-/-) mice that received DOCA-salt treatment, hypertension was similarly induced and the degree of glomerular damage was significantly more severe than in L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(+/+)-DOCA mice. Urinary L-FABP levels were significantly higher in L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(-/-)-DOCA mice compared with those in L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(+/+)-DOCA mice. Hydralazine treatment significantly attenuated renal damage that was found in L-FABP(+/-) AT1a(-/-)-DOCA mice along with a reduction in blood pressure. In summary, activation of the AT1a receptor may contribute to maintenance of the glomerular structure against hypertensive renal damage.-Hisamichi, M., Kamijo-Ikemori, A., Sugaya, T., Ichikawa, D., Natsuki, T., Hoshino, S., Kimura, K., Shibagaki, Y. Role of angiotensin II type 1a receptor in renal injury induced by deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertension.

27807193	PTPN22 Is a Critical Regulator of Fcg Receptor-Mediated Neutrophil Activation. Neutrophils act as a first line of defense against bacterial and fungal infections, but they are also important effectors of acute and chronic inflammation. Genome-wide association studies have established that the gene encoding the protein tyrosine phosphatase nonreceptor 22 (PTPN22) makes an important contribution to susceptibility to autoimmune disease, notably rheumatoid arthritis. Although PTPN22 is most highly expressed in neutrophils, its function in these cells remains poorly characterized. We show in this article that neutrophil effector functions, including adhesion, production of reactive oxygen species, and degranulation induced by immobilized immune complexes, were reduced in Ptpn22(-/-) neutrophils. Tyrosine phosphorylation of Lyn and Syk was altered in Ptpn22(-/-) neutrophils. On stimulation with immobilized immune complexes, Ptpn22(-/-) neutrophils manifested reduced activation of key signaling intermediates. Ptpn22(-/-) mice were protected from immune complex-mediated arthritis, induced by the transfer of arthritogenic serum. In contrast, in vivo neutrophil recruitment following thioglycollate-induced peritonitis and in vitro chemotaxis were not affected by lack of PTPN22. Our data suggest an important role for PTPN22-dependent dephosphorylation events, which are required to enable full FcgR-induced activation, pointing to an important role for this molecule in neutrophil function.

15069170	Four novel mutations in the thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl co-transporter gene in Japanese patients with Gitelman's syndrome. BACKGROUND: Gitelman's syndrome (GS) is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from inactivating mutations in the thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl co-transporter (NCCT) gene. To date, almost 90 mutations have been identified. It is possible that there is a population-specific distribution of mutations. In this study, we analysed mutations in the NCCT gene of seven Japanese patients with GS. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from patients with GS, their family members and healthy control subjects. A mutation analysis of the NCCT gene was performed completely by direct automated sequencing of polymerase chain reaction-amplified DNA products. In patients with a deletion or splice site mutation, we undertook cDNA sequence analysis. RESULTS: We identified nine mutations. Five of them [c.185C>T (Thr60Met), c.1712C>T (Ala569Val), c.1930C>T (Arg642Cys), c.2552T>A (Leu849His) and c.1932delC] have been reported in Japanese patients, but not in GS patients from other ethnic groups. The remaining four mutations [c.7A>T (Met1Leu), c.1181_1186+20del26, c.1811_1812delAT and IVS16+1G>A] were novel. In cDNA derived from a patient with c.1181_1186+20del26, a deletion of exon 9 and a frameshift at the start of exon 10 were observed. In cDNA derived from patients with IVS16+1G>A, an additional 96 bp insertion between exons 16 and 17 was observed. Six out of seven patients were compound heterozygotes, and the remaining one carried a single heterozygous mutation. CONCLUSIONS: We found four novel mutations in the NCCT gene in seven Japanese patients with GS. Moreover, our study suggests that the distribution of mutations in the NCCT gene in Japanese GS patients potentially differs from that in other populations.

17397547	Regulatory network of inflammation downstream of proteinase-activated receptors. BACKGROUND: Protease-activated receptors (PAR) are present in the urinary bladder, and their expression is altered in response to inflammation. PARs are a unique class of G protein-coupled that carry their own ligands, which remain cryptic until unmasked by proteolytic cleavage. Although the canonical signal transduction pathway downstream of PAR activation and coupling with various G proteins is known and leads to the rapid transcription of genes involved in inflammation, the effect of PAR activation on the downstream transcriptome is unknown. We have shown that intravesical administration of PAR-activating peptides leads to an inflammatory reaction characterized by edema and granulocyte infiltration. Moreover, the inflammatory response to intravesical instillation of known pro-inflammatory stimuli such as E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS), substance P (SP), and antigen was strongly attenuated by PAR1- and to a lesser extent by PAR2-deficiency. RESULTS: Here, cDNA array experiments determined inflammatory genes whose expression is dependent on PAR1 activation. For this purpose, we compared the alteration in gene expression in wild type and PAR1-/- mice induced by classical pro-inflammatory stimuli (LPS, SP, and antigen). 75 transcripts were considered to be dependent on PAR-1 activation and further annotated in silico by Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) and gene ontology (GO). Selected transcripts were target validated by quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). Among PAR1-dependent transcripts, the following have been implicated in the inflammatory process: b2m, ccl7, cd200, cd63, cdbpd, cfl1, dusp1, fkbp1a, fth1, hspb1, marcksl1, mmp2, myo5a, nfkbia, pax1, plaur, ppia, ptpn1, ptprcap, s100a10, sim2, and tnfaip2. However, a balanced response to signals of injury requires a transient cellular activation of a panel of genes together with inhibitory systems that temper the overwhelming inflammation. In this context, the activation of genes such as dusp1 and nfkbia seems to counter-balance the inflammatory response to PAR activation by limiting prolonged activation of p38 MAPK and increased cytokine production. In contrast, transcripts such as arf6 and dcnt1 that are involved in the mechanism of PAR re-sensitization would tend to perpetuate the inflammatory reaction in response to common pro-inflammatory stimuli. CONCLUSION: The combination of cDNA array results and genomic networks reveals an overriding participation of PAR1 in bladder inflammation, provides a working model for the involvement of downstream signaling, and evokes testable hypotheses regarding the transcriptome downstream of PAR1 activation. It remains to be determined whether or not mechanisms targeting PAR1 gene silencing or PAR1 blockade will ameliorate the clinical manifestation of cystitis.

17445520	Caffeine challenge test in panic disorder and depression with panic attacks. Our aim was to observe if patients with panic disorder (PD) and patients with major depression with panic attacks (MDP) (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria) respond in a similar way to the induction of panic attacks by an oral caffeine challenge test. We randomly selected 29 patients with PD, 27 with MDP, 25 with major depression without panic attacks (MD), and 28 healthy volunteers. The patients had no psychotropic drug for at least a 4-week period. In a randomized double-blind experiment performed in 2 occasions 7 days apart, 480 mg caffeine and a caffeine-free (placebo) solution were administered in a coffee form and anxiety scales were applied before and after each test. A total of 58.6% (n = 17) of patients with PD, 44.4% (n = 12) of patients with MDP, 12.0% (n = 3) of patients with MD, and 7.1% (n= 2) of control subjects had a panic attack after the 480-mg caffeine challenge test (chi(2)(3) = 16.22, P = .001). The patients with PD and MDP were more sensitive to caffeine than were patients with MD and healthy volunteers. No panic attack was observed after the caffeine-free solution intake. The patients with MD had a lower heart rate response to the test than all the other groups (2-way analysis of variance, group by time interaction with Greenhouse-Geisser correction: F(3,762) = 2.85, P = .026). Our data suggest that there is an association between panic attacks, no matter if associated with PD or MDP, and hyperreactivity to an oral caffeine challenge test.

23651211	Upregulation of T-cell factor-4 isoform-responsive target genes in hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: The Wnt/beta-catenin signalling pathway regulates genes involved in cell proliferation, survival, migration and invasion through regulation by T-cell factor (TCF)-4 transcription factor proteins. However, the role of TCF-4 isoforms generated by alternative splicing events in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is unknown. AIM: Here, we investigated TCF-4 isoforms (TCF-4J and K)-responsive target genes that are important in hepatic oncogenesis and tumour development. METHODS: Gene expression microarray was performed on HCC cells overexpressing TCF-4J and K isoforms. Expression level of selected target genes was evaluated and correlations were made between their expression level and that of TCF-4 isoform in 47 pairs of human HCC tumours. RESULTS: Comparison by gene expression microarray revealed that 447 genes were upregulated and 343 downregulated more than 2.0-fold in TCF-4J compared with TCF-4K expressing cells. We validated expression of 18 selected target genes involved in Wnt/beta-catenin, insulin/IGF-1/IRS1 and Notch signalling pathways in 47 pairs of human HCCs and adjacent uninvolved liver tissues. It was observed that 13 genes (CLDN2, STK17B, SPP1, AXIN2, WISP2, MMP7, IRS1, ANXA1, CAMK2N1, ASPH, GPR56, CD24 and JAG1) activated by TCF-4J isoform in HCC cells, were also upregulated in HCC tumours compared with adjacent peritumour tissue; more importantly, 10 genes exhibited a significant correlation with the TCF-4J expression level in tumour. CONCLUSION: TCF-4 isoforms (TCF-4J and K) activated different downstream target genes in HCC. The biological consequence of TCF-4J isoform expression was upregulation of genes associated with tripartite Wnt/beta-catenin, insulin/IGF-1/IRS1 and Notch signal transduction pathway activation, which contribute to the pathogenesis of HCC.

15991002	Nicotine antagonizes caffeine- but not pentylenetetrazole-induced anxiogenic effect in mice. RATIONALE: Nicotine and caffeine are widely consumed licit psychoactive drugs worldwide. Epidemiological studies showed that they were generally used concurrently. Although some studies in experimental animals indicate clear pharmacological interactions between them, no studies have shown a specific interaction on anxiety responses. OBJECTIVES: The present study investigates the effects of nicotine on anxiety induced by caffeine and another anxiogenic drug, pentylenetetrazole, in mice. The elevated plus-maze (EPM) test was used to evaluate the effects of drugs on anxiety. METHODS: Adult male Swiss Webster mice (25-32 g) were given nicotine (0.05-0.25 mg/kg s.c.) or saline 10 min before caffeine (70 mg/kg i.p.) or pentylenetetrazole (15 and 30 mg/kg i.p.) injections. After 15 min, mice were evaluated for their open- and closed-arm time and entries on the EPM for a 10-min session. Locomotor activity was recorded for individual groups by using the same treatment protocol with the EPM test. RESULTS: Nicotine (0.05-0.25 mg/kg) itself did not produce any significant effect in the EPM test, whereas caffeine (70 mg/kg) and pentylenetetrazole (30 mg/kg) produced an anxiogenic effect, apparent with decreases in open-arm time and entry. Nicotine (0.25 mg/kg) pretreatment blocked the caffeine- but not pentylenetetrazole-induced anxiety. Administration of each drug and their combinations did not produce any effect on locomotor activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the antagonistic effect of nicotine on caffeine-induced anxiety is specific to caffeine, instead of a non-specific anxiolytic effect. Thus, it may extend the current findings on the interaction between nicotine and caffeine.

16565833	The influence of the time interval between monoHER and doxorubicin administration on the protection against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in mice. PURPOSE: Despite its well-known cardiotoxicity, the anthracyclin doxorubicin (DOX) continues to be an effective and widely used chemotherapeutic agent. DOX-induced cardiac damage presumably results from the formation of free radicals by DOX. Reactive oxygen species particularly affect the cardiac myocytes because these cells seem to have a relatively poor antioxidant defense system. The semisynthetic flavonoid monohydroxyethylrutoside (monoHER) showed cardioprotection against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through its radical scavenging and iron chelating properties. Because of the relatively short final half-life of monoHER (about 30 min), it is expected that the time interval between monoHER and DOX might be of influence on the cardioprotective effect of monoHER. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate this possible effect. METHODS: Six groups of 6 BALB/c mice were treated with saline, DOX alone or DOX (4 mg/kg i.v.) preceded by monoHER (500 mg/kg i.p.) with an interval of 10, 30, 60 or 120 min. After a 6-week treatment period and additional observation for 2 weeks, the mice were sacrificed. Their cardiac tissues were processed for light microscopy, after which cardiomyocyte damage was evaluated according to Billingham (in Cancer Treat Rep 62(6):865-872, 1978). Microscopic evaluation revealed that treatment with DOX alone induced significant cardiac damage in comparison to the saline control group (P<0.001). RESULTS: The number of damaged cardiomyocytes was 9.6-fold (95% CI 4.4-21.0) higher in mice treated with DOX alone than that in animals of the control group. The ratio of aberrant cardiomyocytes in mice treated with DOX preceded by monoHER and those in mice treated with saline ranged from 1.6 to 2.8 (mean 2.2, 95% CI 1.2-4.1, P=0.019). The mean protective effect by adding monoHER before DOX led to a significant 4.4-fold reduction (P<0.001, 95% CI 2.3-8.2) of abnormal cardiomyocytes. This protective effect did not depend on the time interval between monoHER and DOX administration (P=0.345). CONCLUSION: The results indicate that in an outpatient clinical setting monoHER may be administered shortly before DOX.

16680561	Pharmacokinetics of desipramine HCl when administered with cinacalcet HCl. OBJECTIVE: In vitro work has demonstrated that cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of cytochrome P450 isoenzyme (CYP) 2D6. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of cinacalcet on CYP2D6 activity, using desipramine as a probe substrate, in healthy subjects. METHODS: Seventeen subjects who were genotyped as CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers were enrolled in this randomized, open-label, crossover study to receive a single oral dose of desipramine (50 mg) on two separate occasions, once alone and once after multiple doses of cinacalcet (90 mg for 7 days). Blood samples were obtained predose and up to 72 h postdose. RESULTS: Fourteen subjects completed both treatment arms. Relative to desipramine alone, mean AUC and C(max) of desipramine increased 3.6- and 1.8-fold when coadministered with cinacalcet. The t (1/2,z) of desipramine was longer when desipramine was coadministered with cinacalcet (21.0 versus 43.3 hs). The t (max) was similar between the regimens. Fewer subjects reported adverse events following treatment with desipramine alone than when receiving desipramine with cinacalcet (33 versus 86%), the most frequent of which (nausea and headache) have been reported for patients treated with either desipramine or cinacalcet. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. These data suggest that during concomitant treatment with cinacalcet, dose adjustment may be necessary for drugs that demonstrate a narrow therapeutic index and are metabolized by CYP2D6.

16867021	Antipsychotic-like profile of thioperamide, a selective H3-receptor antagonist in mice. Experimental and clinical evidence points to a role of central histaminergic system in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. The present study was designed to study the effect of histamine H(3)-receptor ligands on neuroleptic-induced catalepsy, apomorphine-induced climbing behavior and amphetamine-induced locomotor activities in mice. Catalepsy was induced by haloperidol (2 mg/kg p.o.), while apomorphine (1.5 mg/kg s.c.) and amphetamine (2 mg/kg s.c.) were used for studying climbing behavior and locomotor activities, respectively. (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (RAMH) (5 microg i.c.v.) and thioperamide (THP) (15 mg/kg i.p.), per se did not cause catalepsy. Administration of THP (3.75, 7.5 and 15 mg/kg i.p.) 1 h prior to haloperidol resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the catalepsy times (P < 0.05). However, pretreatment with RAMH significantly reversed such an effect of THP (15 mg/kg i.p.). RAMH per se showed significant reduction in locomotor time, distance traveled and average speed but THP (15 mg/kg i.p.) per se had no effect on these parameters. On amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, THP (3.75 and 7.5 mg/kg i.p.) reduced locomotor time, distance traveled and average speed (P < 0.05). Pretreatment with RAMH (5 microg i.c.v.) could partially reverse such effects of THP (3.75 mg/kg i.p.). Climbing behavior induced by apomorphine was reduced in animals treated with THP. Such an effect was, however, reversed in presence of RAMH. THP exhibited an antipsychotic-like profile by potentiating haloperidol-induced catalepsy, reducing amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and reducing apomorphine-induced climbing in mice. Such effects of THP were reversed by RAMH indicating the involvement of histamine H(3)-receptors. Findings suggest a potential for H(3)-receptor antagonists in improving the refractory cases of schizophrenia.

17042884	Placebo-level incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) with quetiapine in controlled studies of patients with bipolar mania. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), including akathisia, with quetiapine in patients with bipolar mania. METHODS: Data were analyzed from four similarly designed, randomized, double-blind, 3- to 12-week studies. Two studies evaluated quetiapine monotherapy (up to 800 mg/day) (n = 209) versus placebo (n = 198), with lithium or haloperidol monotherapy as respective active controls. Two studies evaluated quetiapine (up to 800 mg/day) in combination with a mood stabilizer (lithium or divalproex, QTP + Li/DVP) (n = 196) compared to placebo and mood stabilizer (PBO + Li/DVP) (n = 203). Extrapyramidal symptoms were evaluated using the Simpson-Angus Scale (SAS), the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale (BARS), adverse event reports and anticholinergic drug usage. RESULTS: The incidence of EPS-related adverse events, including akathisia, was no different with quetiapine monotherapy (12.9%) than with placebo (13.1%). Similarly, EPS-related adverse events with QTP + Li/DVP (21.4%) were no different than with PBO + Li/DVP (19.2%). Adverse events related to EPS occurred in 59.6% of patients treated with haloperidol (n = 99) monotherapy, whereas 26.5% of patients treated with lithium (n = 98) monotherapy experienced adverse events related to EPS. The incidence of akathisia was low and similar with quetiapine monotherapy (3.3%) and placebo (6.1%), and with QTP + Li/DVP (3.6%) and PBO + Li/DVP (4.9%). Lithium was associated with a significantly higher incidence (p < 0.05) of tremor (18.4%) than quetiapine (5.6%); cerebellar tremor, which is a known adverse effect of lithium, may have contributed to the elevated rate of tremor in patients receiving lithium therapy. Haloperidol induced a significantly higher incidence (p < 0.001) of akathisia (33.3% versus 5.9%), tremor (30.3% versus 7.8%), and extrapyramidal syndrome (35.4% versus 5.9%) than quetiapine. No significant differences were observed between quetiapine and placebo on SAS and BARS scores. Anticholinergic use was low and similar with quetiapine or placebo. CONCLUSIONS: In bipolar mania, the incidence of EPS, including akathisia, with quetiapine therapy is similar to that with placebo.

17151160	Randomized comparison of olanzapine versus risperidone for the treatment of first-episode schizophrenia: 4-month outcomes. OBJECTIVE: The authors compared 4-month treatment outcomes for olanzapine versus risperidone in patients with first-episode schizophrenia spectrum disorders. METHOD: One hundred twelve subjects (70% male; mean age=23.3 years [SD = 5.1]) with first-episode schizophrenia (75%), schizophreniform disorder (17%), or schizoaffective disorder (8%) were randomly assigned to treatment with olanzapine (2.5-20 mg/day) or risperidone (1-6 mg/day). RESULTS: Response rates did not significantly differ between olanzapine (43.7%, 95% CI=28.8%-58.6%) and risperidone (54.3%, 95% CI=39.9%-68.7%). Among those responding to treatment, more subjects in the olanzapine group (40.9%, 95% CI=16.8%-65.0%) than in the risperidone group (18.9%, 95% CI=0%-39.2%) had subsequent ratings not meeting response criteria. Negative symptom outcomes and measures of parkinsonism and akathisia did not differ between medications. Extrapyramidal symptom severity scores were 1.4 (95% CI=1.2-1.6) with risperidone and 1.2 (95% CI=1.0-1.4) with olanzapine. Significantly more weight gain occurred with olanzapine than with risperidone: the increase in weight at 4 months relative to baseline weight was 17.3% (95% CI=14.2%-20.5%) with olanzapine and 11.3% (95% CI=8.4%-14.3%) with risperidone. Body mass index at baseline and at 4 months was 24.3 (95% CI=22.8-25.7) versus 28.2 (95% CI=26.7-29.7) with olanzapine and 23.9 (95% CI=22.5-25.3) versus 26.7 (95% CI=25.2-28.2) with risperidone. CONCLUSIONS: Clinical outcomes with risperidone were equal to those with olanzapine, and response may be more stable. Olanzapine may have an advantage for motor side effects. Both medications caused substantial rapid weight gain, but weight gain was greater with olanzapine.

17255138	Risks and benefits of COX-2 inhibitors vs non-selective NSAIDs: does their cardiovascular risk exceed their gastrointestinal benefit? A retrospective cohort study. OBJECTIVES: The risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with COX-2 inhibitors may offset their gastrointestinal (GI) benefit compared with non-selective (NS) non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We aimed to compare the risks of hospitalization for AMI and GI bleeding among elderly patients using COX-2 inhibitors, NS-NSAIDs and acetaminophen. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study using administrative data of patients > or =65 years of age who filled a prescription for NSAID or acetaminophen during 1999-2002. Outcomes were compared using Cox regression models with time-dependent exposures. RESULTS: Person-years of exposure among non-users of aspirin were: 75,761 to acetaminophen, 42,671 to rofecoxib 65,860 to celecoxib, and 37,495 to NS-NSAIDs. Among users of aspirin, they were: 14,671 to rofecoxib, 22,875 to celecoxib, 9,832 to NS-NSAIDs and 38,048 to acetaminophen. Among non-users of aspirin, the adjusted hazard ratios (95% confidence interval) of hospitalization for AMI/GI vs the acetaminophen (with no aspirin) group were: rofecoxib 1.27 (1.13, 1.42), celecoxib 0.93 (0.83, 1.03), naproxen 1.59 (1.31, 1.93), diclofenac 1.17 (0.99, 1.38) and ibuprofen 1.05 (0.74, 1.51). Among users of aspirin, they were: rofecoxib 1.73 (1.52, 1.98), celecoxib 1.34 (1.19, 1.52), ibuprofen 1.51 (0.95, 2.41), diclofenac 1.69 (1.35, 2.10), naproxen 1.35 (0.97, 1.88) and acetaminophen 1.29 (1.17, 1.42). CONCLUSION: Among non-users of aspirin, naproxen seemed to carry the highest risk for AMI/GI bleeding. The AMI/GI toxicity of celecoxib was similar to that of acetaminophen and seemed to be better than those of rofecoxib and NS-NSAIDs. Among users of aspirin, both celecoxib and naproxen seemed to be the least toxic.

17297207	Quinine-induced arrhythmia in a patient with severe malaria. It was reported that there was a case of severe malaria patient with jaundice who presented with arrhythmia (premature ventricular contraction) while getting quinine infusion was reported. A man, 25 years old, was admitted to hospital with high fever, chill, vomiting, jaundice. The patient was fully conscious, blood pressure 120/80 mmHg, pulse rate 100 x/minute, regular. On admission, laboratory examination showed Plasmodium falciparum (++++), total bilirubin 8.25 mg/dL, conjugated bilirubin 4.36 mg/dL, unconjugated bilirubin 3.89 mg/dL, potassium 3.52 meq/L Patient was diagnosed as severe malaria with jaundice and got quinine infusion in dextrose 5% 500 mg/8 hour. On the second day the patient had vomitus, diarrhea, tinnitus, loss of hearing. After 30 hours of quinine infusion the patient felt palpitation and electrocardiography (ECG) recording showed premature ventricular contraction (PVC) > 5 x/minute, trigemini, constant type--sinoatrial block, positive U wave. He was treated with lidocaine 50 mg intravenously followed by infusion 1500 mg in dextrose 5%/24 hour and potassium aspartate tablet. Quinine infusion was discontinued and changed with sulfate quinine tablets. Three hours later the patient felt better, the frequency of PVC reduced to 4 - 5 x/minute and on the third day ECG was normal, potassium level was 3.34 meq/L. He was discharged on 7th day in good condition. Quinine, like quinidine, is a chincona alkaloid that has anti-arrhythmic property, although it also pro-arrhythmic that can cause various arrhythmias, including severe arrhythmia such as multiple PVC. Administration of parenteral quinine must be done carefully and with good observation because of its pro-arrhythmic effect, especially in older patients who have heart diseases or patients with electrolyte disorder (hypokalemia) which frequently occurs due to vomiting and or diarrhea in malaria cases.

17384765	Succimer chelation improves learning, attention, and arousal regulation in lead-exposed rats but produces lasting cognitive impairment in the absence of lead exposure. BACKGROUND: There is growing pressure for clinicians to prescribe chelation therapy at only slightly elevated blood lead levels. However, very few studies have evaluated whether chelation improves cognitive outcomes in Pb-exposed children, or whether these agents have adverse effects that may affect brain development in the absence of Pb exposure. OBJECTIVES: The present study was designed to answer these questions, using a rodent model of early childhood Pb exposure and treatment with succimer, a widely used chelating agent for the treatment of Pb poisoning. RESULTS: Pb exposure produced lasting impairments in learning, attention, inhibitory control, and arousal regulation, paralleling the areas of dysfunction seen in Pb-exposed children. Succimer treatment of the Pb-exposed rats significantly improved learning, attention, and arousal regulation, although the efficacy of the treatment varied as a function of the Pb exposure level and the specific functional deficit. In contrast, succimer treatment of rats not previously exposed to Pb produced lasting and pervasive cognitive and affective dysfunction comparable in magnitude to that produced by the higher Pb exposure regimen. CONCLUSIONS: These are the first data, to our knowledge, to show that treatment with any chelating agent can alleviate cognitive deficits due to Pb exposure. These findings suggest that it may be possible to identify a succimer treatment protocol that improves cognitive outcomes in Pb-exposed children. However, they also suggest that succimer treatment should be strongly discouraged for children who do not have elevated tissue levels of Pb or other heavy metals.

17608141	Attenuation of methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice by lipopolysaccharide pretreatment. Immunological activation has been proposed to play a role in methamphetamine-induced dopaminergic terminal damage. In this study, we examined the roles of lipopolysaccharide, a pro-inflammatory and inflammatory factor, treatment in modulating the methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopamine neurotoxicity. Lipopolysaccharide pretreatment did not affect the basal body temperature or methamphetamine-elicited hyperthermia three days later. Such systemic lipopolysaccharide treatment mitigated methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions in a dose-dependent manner. As the most potent dose (1 mg/kg) of lipopolysaccharide was administered two weeks, one day before or after the methamphetamine dosing regimen, methamphetamine-induced striatal dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions remained unaltered. Moreover, systemic lipopolysaccharide pretreatment (1 mg/kg) attenuated local methamphetamine infusion-produced dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid depletions in the striatum, indicating that the protective effect of lipopolysaccharide is less likely due to interrupted peripheral distribution or metabolism of methamphetamine. We concluded a critical time window for systemic lipopolysaccharide pretreatment in exerting effective protection against methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopamine neurotoxicity.

18162529	Hypothalamic prolactin receptor messenger ribonucleic acid levels, prolactin signaling, and hyperprolactinemic inhibition of pulsatile luteinizing hormone secretion are dependent on estradiol. Hyperprolactinemia can reduce fertility and libido. Although central prolactin actions are thought to contribute to this, the mechanisms are poorly understood. We first tested whether chronic hyperprolactinemia inhibited two neuroendocrine parameters necessary for female fertility: pulsatile LH secretion and the estrogen-induced LH surge. Chronic hyperprolactinemia induced by the dopamine antagonist sulpiride caused a 40% reduction LH pulse frequency in ovariectomized rats, but only in the presence of chronic low levels of estradiol. Sulpiride did not affect the magnitude of a steroid-induced LH surge or the percentage of GnRH neurons activated during the surge. Estradiol is known to influence expression of the long form of prolactin receptors (PRL-R) and components of prolactin's signaling pathway. To test the hypothesis that estrogen increases PRL-R expression and sensitivity to prolactin, we next demonstrated that estradiol greatly augments prolactin-induced STAT5 activation. Lastly, we measured PRL-R and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS-1 and -3 and CIS, which reflect the level of prolactin signaling) mRNAs in response to sulpiride and estradiol. Sulpiride induced only SOCS-1 in the medial preoptic area, where GnRH neurons are regulated, but in the arcuate nucleus and choroid plexus, PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels were also induced. Estradiol enhanced these effects on SOCS-3 and CIS. Interestingly, estradiol also induced PRL-R, SOCS-3, and CIS mRNA levels independently. These data show that GnRH pulse frequency is inhibited by chronic hyperprolactinemia in a steroid-dependent manner. They also provide evidence for estradiol-dependent and brain region-specific regulation of PRL-R expression and signaling responses by prolactin.

18308784	Ginsenoside Rg1 restores the impairment of learning induced by chronic morphine administration in rats. Rg1, as a ginsenoside extracted from Panax ginseng, could ameliorate spatial learning impairment. Previous studies have demonstrated that Rg1 might be a useful agent for the prevention and treatment of the adverse effects of morphine. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Rg1 on learning impairment by chronic morphine administration and the mechanism responsible for this effect. Male rats were subcutaneously injected with morphine (10 mg/kg) twice a day at 12 hour intervals for 10 days, and Rg1 (30 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected 2 hours after the second injection of morphine once a day for 10 days. Spatial learning capacity was assessed in the Morris water maze. The results showed that rats treated with Morphine/Rg1 decreased escape latency and increased the time spent in platform quadrant and entering frequency. By implantation of electrodes and electrophysiological recording in vivo, the results showed that Rg1 restored the long-term potentiation (LTP) impaired by morphine in both freely moving and anaesthetised rats. The electrophysiological recording in vitro showed that Rg1 restored the LTP in slices from the rats treated with morphine, but not changed LTP in the slices from normal saline- or morphine/Rg1-treated rats; this restoration could be inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801. We conclude that Rg1 may significantly improve the spatial learning capacity impaired by chonic morphine administration and restore the morphine-inhibited LTP. This effect is NMDA receptor dependent.

18951540	Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease. In a placebo-controlled, single-blinded, crossover study, we assessed the effect of "real" repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) versus "sham" rTMS (placebo) on peak dose dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Ten patients with PD and prominent dyskinesias had rTMS (1,800 pulses; 1 Hz rate) delivered over the motor cortex for 4 consecutive days twice, once real stimuli and once sham stimulation were used; evaluations were done at the baseline and 1 day after the end of each of the treatment series. Direct comparison between sham and real rTMS effects showed no significant difference in clinician-assessed dyskinesia severity. However, comparison with the baseline showed small but significant reduction in dyskinesia severity following real rTMS but not placebo. The major effect was on dystonia subscore. Similarly, in patient diaries, although both treatments caused reduction in subjective dyskinesia scores during the days of intervention, the effect was sustained for 3 days after the intervention for the real rTMS only. Following rTMS, no side effects and no adverse effects on motor function and PD symptoms were noted. The results suggest the existence of residual beneficial clinical aftereffects of consecutive daily applications of low-frequency rTMS on dyskinesias in PD. The effects may be further exploited for potential therapeutic uses.

19759529	The glycine transporter-1 inhibitor SSR103800 displays a selective and specific antipsychotic-like profile in normal and transgenic mice. Schizophrenia has been initially associated with dysfunction in dopamine neurotransmission. However, the observation that antagonists of the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor produce schizophrenic-like symptoms in humans has led to the idea of a dysfunctioning of the glutamatergic system via its NMDA receptor. As a result, there is a growing interest in the development of pharmacological agents with potential antipsychotic properties that enhance the activity of the glutamatergic system via a modulation of the NMDA receptor. Among them are glycine transporter-1 (GlyT1) inhibitors such as SSR103800, which indirectly enhance NMDA receptor function by increasing the glycine (a co-agonist for the NMDA receptor) levels in the synapse. This study aimed at investigating the potential antipsychotic-like properties of SSR103800, with a particular focus on models of hyperactivity, involving either drug challenge (ie, amphetamine and MK-801) or transgenic mice (ie, NMDA Nr1(neo-/-) and DAT(-/-)). Results showed that SSR103800 (10-30 mg/kg p.o.) blocked hyperactivity induced by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 and partially reversed spontaneous hyperactivity of NMDA Nr1(neo-/-) mice. In contrast, SSR103800 failed to affect hyperactivity induced by amphetamine or naturally observed in dopamine transporter (DAT(-/-)) knockout mice (10-30 mg/kg p.o.). Importantly, both classical (haloperidol) and atypical (olanzapine, clozapine and aripiprazole) antipsychotics were effective in all these models of hyperactivity. However, unlike these latter, SSR103800 did not produce catalepsy (retention on the bar test) up to 30 mg/kg p.o. Together these findings show that the GlyT1 inhibitor, SSR103800, produces antipsychotic-like effects, which differ from those observed with compounds primarily targeting the dopaminergic system, and has a reduced side-effect potential as compared with these latter drugs.

19914299	Fluoxetine improves the memory deficits caused by the chemotherapy agent 5-fluorouracil. Cancer patients who have been treated with systemic adjuvant chemotherapy have described experiencing deteriorations in cognition. A widely used chemotherapeutic agent, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), readily crosses the blood-brain barrier and so could have a direct effect on brain function. In particular this anti mitotic drug could reduce cell proliferation in the neurogenic regions of the adult brain. In contrast reports indicate that hippocampal dependent neurogenesis and cognition are enhanced by the SSRI antidepressant Fluoxetine. In this investigation the behavioural effects of chronic (two week) treatment with 5-FU and (three weeks) with Fluoxetine either separately or in combination with 5-FU were tested on adult Lister hooded rats. Behavioural effects were tested using a context dependent conditioned emotional response test (CER) which showed that animals treated with 5-FU had a significant reduction in freezing time compared to controls. A separate group of animals was tested using a hippocampal dependent spatial working memory test, the object location recognition test (OLR). Animals treated only with 5-FU showed significant deficits in their ability to carry out the OLR task but co administration of Fluoxetine improved their performance. 5-FU chemotherapy caused a significant reduction in the number of proliferating cells in the sub granular zone of the dentate gyrus compared to controls. This reduction was eliminated when Fluoxetine was co administered with 5-FU. Fluoxetine on its own had no effect on proliferating cell number or behaviour. These findings suggest that 5-FU can negatively affect both cell proliferation and hippocampal dependent working memory and that these deficits can be reversed by the simultaneous administration of the antidepressant Fluoxetine.

20195852	Risk of nephropathy after consumption of nonionic contrast media by children undergoing cardiac angiography: a prospective study. Despite increasing reports on nonionic contrast media-induced nephropathy (CIN) in hospitalized adult patients during cardiac procedures, the studies in pediatrics are limited, with even less focus on possible predisposing factors and preventive measures for patients undergoing cardiac angiography. This prospective study determined the incidence of CIN for two nonionic contrast media (CM), iopromide and iohexol, among 80 patients younger than 18 years and compared the rates for this complication in relation to the type and dosage of CM and the presence of cyanosis. The 80 patients in the study consecutively received either iopromide (group A, n = 40) or iohexol (group B, n = 40). Serum sodium (Na), potassium (K), and creatinine (Cr) were measured 24 h before angiography as baseline values, then measured again at 12-, 24-, and 48-h intervals after CM use. Urine samples for Na and Cr also were checked at the same intervals. Risk of renal failure, Injury to the kidney, Failure of kidney function, Loss of kidney function, and End-stage renal damage (RIFLE criteria) were used to define CIN and its incidence in the study population. Accordingly, among the 15 CIN patients (18.75%), 7.5% of the patients in group A had increased risk and 3.75% had renal injury, whereas 5% of group B had increased risk and 2.5% had renal injury. Whereas 33.3% of the patients with CIN were among those who received the proper dosage of CM, the percentage increased to 66.6% among those who received larger doses, with a significant difference in the incidence of CIN related to the different dosages of CM (p = 0.014). Among the 15 patients with CIN, 6 had cyanotic congenital heart diseases, but the incidence did not differ significantly from that for the noncyanotic patients (p = 0.243). Although clinically silent, CIN is not rare in pediatrics. The incidence depends on dosage but not on the type of consumed nonionic CM, nor on the presence of cyanosis, and although CIN usually is reversible, more concern is needed for the prevention of such a complication in children.

20621845	Elevation of ADAM10, ADAM17, MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression with media degeneration features CaCl2-induced thoracic aortic aneurysm in a rat model. PURPOSE: This study was designed to establish a rat model of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) by calcium chloride (CaCl(2))-induced arterial injury and to explore the potential role of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous inhibitors (TIMPs) in TAA formation. METHODS: Thoracic aorta of male Sprague-Dawley rats was exposed to 0.5M CaCl(2) or normal saline (NaCl). After 12weeks, animals were euthanized, and CaCl(2)-treated, CaCl(2)-untreated (n=12) and NaCl-treated aortic segments (n=12) were collected for histological and molecular assessments. MMP-TIMP and ADAM mRNAs were semi-quantitatively analyzed and protein expressions were determined by immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Despite similar external diameters among CaCl(2)-treated, non-CaCl(2)-treated and NaCl-treated segments, aneurymal alteration (n=6, 50%), media degeneration with regional disruption, fragmentation of elastic fiber, and increased collagen deposition (n=12, 100%) were demonstrated in CaCl(2)-treated segments. MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 mRNA levels were increased in CaCl(2)-treated segments (all p<0.01), with trends of elevation in CaCl(2)-untreated segments, as compared with NaCl-treated segments. Immunohistochemistry displayed significantly increased expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 (all p<0.01) in intima and media for CaCl(2)-treated segments. TIMP mRNA and tissue levels did not differ obviously among the three aortic segments. CONCLUSION: This study establishes a TAA model by periarterial CaCl(2) exposure in rats, and demonstrates a significant elevation of expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM10 and ADAM17 in the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling.

23872883	Biochemical effects of Solidago virgaurea extract on experimental cardiotoxicity. Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the major health problem of advanced as well as developing countries of the world. The aim of the present study was to investigate the protective effect of the Solidago virgaurea extract on isoproterenol-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. The subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (30 mg/kg) into rats twice at an interval of 24 h, for two consecutive days, led to a significant increase in serum lactate dehydrogenase, creatine phosphokinase, alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, and angiotensin-converting enzyme activities, total cholesterol, triglycerides, free serum fatty acid, cardiac tissue malondialdehyde (MDA), and nitric oxide levels and a significant decrease in levels of glutathione and superoxide dismutase in cardiac tissue as compared to the normal control group (P < 0.05). Pretreatment with S. virgaurea extract for 5 weeks at a dose of 250 mg/kg followed by isoproterenol injection significantly prevented the observed alterations. Captopril (50 mg/kg/day, given orally), an inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme used as a standard cardioprotective drug, was used as a positive control in this study. The data of the present study suggest that S. virgaurea extract exerts its protective effect by decreasing MDA level and increasing the antioxidant status in isoproterenol-treated rats. The study emphasizes the beneficial action of S. virgaurea extract as a cardioprotective agent.

24333387	Glial activation and post-synaptic neurotoxicity: the key events in Streptozotocin (ICV) induced memory impairment in rats. In the present study the role of glial activation and post synaptic toxicity in ICV Streptozotocin (STZ) induced memory impaired rats was explored. In experiment set up 1: Memory deficit was found in Morris water maze test on 14-16 days after STZ (ICV; 3mg/Kg) administration. STZ causes increased expression of GFAP, CD11b and TNF-a indicating glial activation and neuroinflammation. STZ also significantly increased the level of ROS, nitrite, Ca(2+) and reduced the mitochondrial activity in synaptosomal preparation illustrating free radical generation and excitotoxicity. Increased expression and activity of Caspase-3 was also observed in STZ treated rat which specify apoptotic cell death in hippocampus and cortex. STZ treatment showed decrease expression of post synaptic markers CaMKIIa and PSD-95, while, expression of pre synaptic markers (synaptophysin and SNAP-25) remains unaltered indicating selective post synaptic neurotoxicity. Oral treatment with Memantine (10mg/kg) and Ibuprofen (50 mg/kg) daily for 13 days attenuated STZ induced glial activation, apoptotic cell death and post synaptic neurotoxicity in rat brain. Further, in experiment set up 2: where memory function was not affected i.e. 7-9 days after STZ treatment. The level of GFAP, CD11b, TNF-a, ROS and nitrite levels were increased. On the other hand, apoptotic marker, synaptic markers, mitochondrial activity and Ca(2+) levels remained unaffected. Collective data indicates that neuroinflammatory process and oxidative stress occurs earlier to apoptosis and does not affect memory function. Present study clearly suggests that glial activation and post synaptic neurotoxicity are the key factors in STZ induced memory impairment and neuronal cell death.

24438483	Pre-treatment of bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression using different lipid formulations of propofol. BACKGROUND: Pre-treatment with lipid emulsions has been shown to increase lethal doses of bupivacaine, and the lipid content of propofol may alleviate bupivacaine-induced cardiotoxicity. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of propofol in intralipid or medialipid emulsions on bupivacaine-induced cardiotoxicity. METHODS: Rats were anaesthetised with ketamine and were given 0.5 mg/kg/min propofol in intralipid (Group P), propofol in medialipid (Group L), or saline (Group C) over 20 min. Thereafter, 2 mg/kg/min bupivacaine 0.5% was infused. We recorded time to first dysrhythmia occurrence, respective times to 25% and 50% reduction of the heart rate (HR) and mean arterial pressure, and time to asystole and total amount of bupivacaine consumption. Blood and tissue samples were collected following asystole. RESULTS: The time to first dysrhythmia occurrence, time to 25% and 50% reductions in HR, and time to asystole were longer in Group P than the other groups. The cumulative bupivacaine dose given at those time points was higher in Group P. Plasma bupivacaine levels were significantly lower in Group P than in Group C. Bupivacaine levels in the brain and heart were significantly lower in Group P and Group L than in Group C. CONCLUSION: We conclude that pre-treatment with propofol in intralipid, compared with propofol in medialipid or saline, delayed the onset of bupivacaine-induced cardiotoxic effects as well as reduced plasma bupivacaine levels. Further studies are needed to explore tissue bupivacaine levels of propofol in medialipid and adapt these results to clinical practice.

25119790	Curcumin prevents maleate-induced nephrotoxicity: relation to hemodynamic alterations, oxidative stress, mitochondrial oxygen consumption and activity of respiratory complex I. The potential protective effect of the dietary antioxidant curcumin (120 mg/Kg/day for 6 days) against the renal injury induced by maleate was evaluated. Tubular proteinuria and oxidative stress were induced by a single injection of maleate (400 mg/kg) in rats. Maleate-induced renal injury included increase in renal vascular resistance and in the urinary excretion of total protein, glucose, sodium, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) and N-acetyl b-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), upregulation of kidney injury molecule (KIM)-1, decrease in renal blood flow and claudin-2 expression besides of necrosis and apoptosis of tubular cells on 24 h. Oxidative stress was determined by measuring the oxidation of lipids and proteins and diminution in renal Nrf2 levels. Studies were also conducted in renal epithelial LLC-PK1 cells and in mitochondria isolated from kidneys of all the experimental groups. Maleate induced cell damage and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in LLC-PK1 cells in culture. In addition, maleate treatment reduced oxygen consumption in ADP-stimulated mitochondria and diminished respiratory control index when using malate/glutamate as substrate. The activities of both complex I and aconitase were also diminished. All the above-described alterations were prevented by curcumin. It is concluded that curcumin is able to attenuate in vivo maleate-induced nephropathy and in vitro cell damage. The in vivo protection was associated to the prevention of oxidative stress and preservation of mitochondrial oxygen consumption and activity of respiratory complex I, and the in vitro protection was associated to the prevention of ROS production.

